On Friday, September 16, 1960, Miss Georgia Babcock
and her friends, Mr. and Mrs. William Jackson, all
residents of Rochester, left that city in Mr. Jackson's
automobile, Miss Babcock as guest, for a week-end trip
to Canada. Some hours later, as Mr. Jackson was driving
in the Province of Ontario, he apparently lost control of
the car; it went off the highway into an adjacent stone
wall, and Miss Babcock was seriously injured. Upon her
return to this State, she brought 
[12 N.Y.2d 477]
 the
present action against William Jackson, alleging
negligence on his part in operating his automobile.
1
At the time of the accident, there was in force in
Ontario a statute providing that "the owner or driver of
a motor vehicle, other than a vehicle operated in the
business of carrying passengers for compensation, is not
liable for any loss or damage resulting from bodily
injury to, or the death of any person being carried in * *
* the motor vehicle" (Highway Traffic Act of Province
of Ontario [Ontario Rev. Stat. (1960), ch. 172], 
§
 105,
subd. [2]). Even though no such bar is recognized under
this State's substantive law of torts (see, e.g., Higgins v.
Mason, 255 N.Y. 104, 108; Nelson v. Nygren, 259 N.Y.
71), the defendant moved to dismiss the complaint on
the ground that the law of the place where the accident
occurred governs and that Ontario's guest statute bars
recovery. The court at Special Term, agreeing with the
defendant, granted the motion and the Appellate
Division, over a strong dissent by Justice HALPERN,
affirmed the judgment of dismissal without opinion.
The question presented is simply drawn. Shall the law of
the place of the tort
2 
invariably govern the availability of
relief for the tort or shall the applicable choice of law
rule also reflect a consideration of other factors which
are relevant to the purposes served by the enforcement
or denial of the remedy?
The traditional choice of law rule, embodied in the
original Restatement of Conflict of Laws (
§
 384), and
until recently unquestioningly followed in this court
(see, e.g., Poplar v. Bourjois, Inc., 298 N.Y. 62, 66;
Kaufman v. American Youth Hostels, 5 N.Y.2d 1016,
modfg. 6 A.D.2d 223), has been that the substantive
rights and liabilities arising out of a tortious occurrence
are determinable by the law of the place of the tort. (See
Goodrich, Conflict of Laws [3d ed., 1949], p. 260; Leflar,
The Law of Conflict of Laws [1959], p. 207; Stumberg,
Principles of Conflict of Laws [2d ed., 1951], p. 182.) It
had its conceptual foundation in the vested rights
doctrine, namely, that a right to recover for a foreign
tort owes its creation to the law of the 
[12 N.Y.2d 478]
jurisdiction where the injury occurred and depends for
its existence and extent solely on such law. (See
Hancock, Torts in the Conflict of Laws [1942], pp. 30-
36; Reese, The Ever Changing Rules of Choice of Law,
Nederlands Tijdschrift Voor Internationaal Recht
[1962], 389.) Although espoused by such great figures as
Justice HOLMES (see Slater v. Mexican Nat. R. R. Co.,
194 U.S. 120) and Professor Beale (2 Conflict of Laws
[1935], pp. 1286-1292), the vested rights doctrine has
long since been discredited because it fails to take
account of underlying policy considerations in
evaluating the significance to be ascribed to the
circumstance that an act had a foreign situs in
determining the rights and liabilities which arise out of
that act.
3 
 "The vice of the vested rights theory", it has
been aptly stated, "is that it affects to decide concrete
cases upon generalities which do not state the practical
considerations involved". (Yntema, The Hornbook
Method and the Conflict of Laws, 37 Yale L. J. 468, 482-
483.) More particularly, as applied to torts, the theory
ignores the interest which jurisdictions other than that
where the tort occurred may have in the resolution of
particular issues. It is for this very reason that, despite
the advantages of certainty, ease of application and
predictability which it affords (see Cheatham and Reese,
Choice of the Applicable Law, 52 Col. L. Rev. 959, 976),
there has in recent years been increasing criticism of the
traditional rule by commentators
4 
 and a judicial trend
towards its abandonment or modification.
5
[12 N.Y.2d 479]
 Significantly, it was dissatisfaction with
"the mechanical formulae of the conflicts of law"
(Vanston Committee v. Green, 329 U.S. 156, 162) which
led to judicial departure from similarly inflexible choice
of law rules in the field of contracts, grounded, like the
torts rule, on the vested rights doctrine. According to
those traditional rules, matters bearing upon the
execution, interpretation and validity of a contract were
determinable by the internal law of the place where the
contract was made, while matters connected with their
performance were regulated by the internal law of the
place where the contract was to be performed. (See
Swift & Co. v. Bankers Trust Co., 280 N.Y. 135, 141;
see, also, Restatement, Conflict of Laws, 
§§
 332, 358;
Goodrich, Conflict of Laws [3d ed., 1949], pp. 342-343.)
In Auten v. Auten (308 N.Y. 155), however, this court
abandoned such rules and applied what has been termed
the "center of gravity" or "grouping of contacts" theory
of the conflict of laws. "Under this theory," we declared
in the Auten case, "the courts, instead of regarding as
conclusive the parties' intention or the place of making
or performance, lay emphasis rather upon the law of the
place `which has the most significant contacts with the
matter in dispute'" (308 N. Y., at p. 160). The "center of
gravity" rule of Auten has not only been applied in other
cases in this State,
6 
 as well as in other jurisdictions,
7 
 but
has supplanted the prior rigid and set contract rules in
the most current draft of the Restatement of Conflict of
Laws. (See Restatement, Second, Conflict of Laws, 
§
332b [Tentative Draft No. 6, 1960].)
Realization of the unjust and anomalous results which
may ensue from application of the traditional rule in
tort cases has also prompted judicial search for a more
satisfactory alternative in that area. In the much
discussed case of Kilberg v. Northeast Airlines (9 N.Y.2d
34), this court declined to apply the law of the place of
the tort as respects the issue of the quantum of the
recovery in a death action arising out of an airplane
crash, 
[12 N.Y.2d 480]
 where the decedent had been a
New York resident and his relationship with the
defendant airline had originated in this State. In his
opinion for the court, Chief Judge DESMOND
described, with force and logic, the shortcomings of the
traditional rule (9 N Y 2d, at p. 39):
"Modern conditions make it unjust and anomalous to subject the
traveling citizen of this State to the varying laws of other States
through and over which they move. * * * An air traveler from New
York may in a flight of a few hours' duration pass through * * *
commonwealths [limiting death damage awards]. His plane may
meet with disaster in a State he never intended to cross but into
which the plane has flown because of bad weather or other
unexpected developments, or an airplane's catastrophic descent may
begin in one State and end in another. The place of injury becomes
entirely fortuitous. Our courts should if possible provide protection
for our own State's people against unfair and anachronistic
treatment of the lawsuits which result from these disasters."
The emphasis in Kilberg was plainly that the merely
fortuitous circumstance that the wrong and injury
occurred in Massachusetts did not give that State a
controlling concern or interest in the amount of the tort
recovery as against the competing interest of New York
in providing its residents or users of transportation
facilities there originating with full compensation for
wrongful death. Although the Kilberg case did not
expressly adopt the "center of gravity" theory, its
weighing of the contacts or interests of the respective
jurisdictions to determine their bearing on the issue of
the extent of the recovery is consistent with that
approach. (See Leflar, Conflict of Laws, 1961 Ann. Sur.
Amer. Law, 29, 45.)
The same judicial disposition is also reflected in a variety
of other decisions, some of recent date, others of earlier
origin, relating to workmen's compensation,
8 
 tortious
occurrences arising 
[12 N.Y.2d 481]
 out of a contract,
9
issues affecting the survival of a tort right of action
10
and intrafamilial immunity from tort
11 
 and situations
involving a form of statutory liability.
12 
 These
numerous cases differ in many ways but they are all
similar in two important respects. First, by one rationale
or another, they rejected the inexorable application of
the law of the place of the tort where that place has no
reasonable or relevant interest in the particular issue
involved. And, second, in each of these cases the courts,
after examining the particular circumstances presented,
applied the law of some jurisdiction other than the place
of the tort because it had a more compelling interest in
the application of its law to the legal issue involved.
The "center of gravity" or "grouping of contacts"
doctrine adopted by this court in conflicts cases
involving contracts impresses us as likewise affording
the appropriate approach for accommodating the
competing interests in tort cases with multi-State
contacts. Justice, fairness and "the best practical result"
(Swift & Co. v. Bankers Trust Co., 280 N.Y. 135, 141,
supra) may best be achieved by giving controlling effect
to the law of the jurisdiction which, because of its
relationship or contact with the occurrence or the
parties, has the greatest concern with the specific issue
raised in the litigation. The merit of such a rule is that
"it gives to the place `having the most interest in the
problem' paramount control over the legal issues arising
out of a particular factual context" and thereby allows
the forum to apply "the policy of the jurisdiction `most
[12 N.Y.2d 482]
 intimately concerned with the outcome
of [the] particular litigation.'" (Auten v. Auten, 308 N.Y.
155, 161, supra.)
Such, indeed, is the approach adopted in the most recent
revision of the Conflict of Laws Restatement in the field
of torts. According to the principles there set out, "The
local law of the state which has the most significant
relationship with the occurrence and with the parties
determines their rights and liabilities in tort"
(Restatement, Second, Conflict of Laws, 
§
 379[1]; also
Introductory Note to Topic 1 of Chapter 9, p. 3
[Tentative Draft No. 8, 1963]), and the relative
importance of the relationships or contacts of the
respective jurisdictions is to be evaluated in the light of
"the issues, the character of the tort and the relevant
purposes of the tort rules involved" (
§
 379[2], [3]).
Comparison of the relative "contacts" and "interests" of
New York and Ontario in this litigation, vis-a-vis the
issue here presented, makes it clear that the concern of
New York is unquestionably the greater and more direct
and that the interest of Ontario is at best minimal. The
present action involves injuries sustained by a New
York guest as the result of the negligence of a New York
host in the operation of an automobile, garaged, licensed
and undoubtedly insured in New York, in the course of
a week-end journey which began and was to end there.
In sharp contrast, Ontario's sole relationship with the
occurrence is the purely adventitious circumstance that
the accident occurred there.
New York's policy of requiring a tort-feasor to
compensate his guest for injuries caused by his
negligence cannot be doubted — as attested by the fact
that the Legislature of this State has repeatedly refused
to enact a statute denying or limiting recovery in such
cases (see, e.g., 1930 Sen. Int. No. 339, Pr. No. 349; 1935
Sen. Int. No. 168, Pr. No. 170; 1960 Sen. Int. No. 3662,
Pr. No. 3967) — and our courts have neither reason nor
warrant for departing from that policy simply because
the accident, solely affecting New York residents and
arising out of the operation of a New York based
automobile, happened beyond its borders. Per contra,
Ontario has no conceivable interest in denying a remedy
to a New York guest against his New York host for
injuries suffered in Ontario by reason of conduct which
was tortious under Ontario law. The object of Ontario's
guest statute, it has been said, is "to prevent the
fraudulent assertion 
[12 N.Y.2d 483]
 of claims by
passengers, in collusion with the drivers, against
insurance companies" (Survey of Canadian Legislation,
1 U. Toronto L. J. 358, 366) and, quite obviously, the
fraudulent claims intended to be prevented by the
statute are those asserted against Ontario defendants and
their insurance carriers, not New York defendants and
their insurance carriers. Whether New York defendants
are imposed upon or their insurers defrauded by a New
York plaintiff is scarcely a valid legislative concern of
Ontario simply because the accident occurred there, any
more so than if the accident had happened in some
other jurisdiction.
It is hardly necessary to say that Ontario's interest is
quite different from what it would have been had the
issue related to the manner in which the defendant had
been driving his car at the time of the accident. Where
the defendant's exercise of due care in the operation of
his automobile is in issue, the jurisdiction in which the
allegedly wrongful conduct occurred will usually have a
predominant, if not exclusive, concern. In such a case, it
is appropriate to look to the law of the place of the tort
so as to give effect to that jurisdiction's interest in
regulating conduct within its borders, and it would be
almost unthinkable to seek the applicable rule in the law
of some other place.
The issue here, however, is not whether the defendant
offended against a rule of the road prescribed by Ontario
for motorists generally or whether he violated some
standard of conduct imposed by that jurisdiction, but
rather whether the plaintiff, because she was a guest in
the defendant's automobile, is barred from recovering
damages for a wrong concededly committed. As to that
issue, it is New York, the place where the parties
resided, where their guest-host relationship arose and
where the trip began and was to end, rather than
Ontario, the place of the fortuitous occurrence of the
accident, which has the dominant contacts and the
superior claim for application of its law. Although the
rightness or wrongness of defendant's conduct may
depend upon the law of the particular jurisdiction
through which the automobile passes, the rights and
liabilities of the parties which stem from their guest-
host relationship should remain constant and not vary
and shift as the automobile proceeds from place to place.
Indeed, such a result, we note, 
[12 N.Y.2d 484]
 accords
with "the interests of the host in procuring liability
insurance adequate under the applicable law, and the
interests of his insurer in reasonable calculability of the
premium." (Ehrenzweig, Guest Statutes in the Conflict
of Laws, 69 Yale L. J. 595, 603.)
Although the traditional rule has in the past been
applied by this court in giving controlling effect to the
guest statute of the foreign jurisdiction in which the
accident occurred (see, e.g., Smith v. Clute, 277 N.Y.
407; Kerfoot v. Kelley, 294 N.Y. 288; Naphtali v.
Lafazan, 8 N.Y.2d 1097, affg. 8 A.D.2d 22), it is not
amiss to point out that the question here posed was
neither raised nor considered in those cases and that the
question has never been presented in so stark a manner
as in the case before us with a statute so unique as
Ontario's.
13 
 Be that as it may, however, reconsideration
of the inflexible traditional rule persuades us, as already
indicated, that, in failing to take into account essential
policy considerations and objectives, its application may
lead to unjust and anomalous results. This being so, the
rule, formulated as it was by the courts, should be
discarded. (Cf. Bing v. Thunig, 2 N.Y.2d 656, 667;
Woods v. Lancet, 303 N.Y. 349, 355.)
14
In conclusion, then, there is no reason why all issues
arising out of a tort claim must be resolved by reference
to the law of the same jurisdiction. Where the issue
involves standards of conduct, it is more than likely that
it is the law of the place of the tort which will be
controlling but the disposition of other issues must turn,
as does the issue of the standard of conduct itself, on the
law of the jurisdiction which has the strongest interest
in the resolution of the particular issue presented.
[12 N.Y.2d 485]
 The judgment appealed from should be
reversed, with costs, and the motion to dismiss the
complaint denied.