Annette R. Phillips alleges that she was sexually harassed
while working at a Hooters restaurant. After quitting
her job, Phillips threatened to sue Hooters in court.
Alleging that Phillips agreed to arbitrate employment-
related disputes, Hooters preemptively filed suit to
compel arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act, 9
U.S.C. 
§
 4. Because Hooters set up a dispute resolution
process utterly lacking in the rudiments of even-
handedness, we hold that Hooters breached its
agreement to arbitrate. Thus, we affirm the district
court's refusal to compel arbitration.
I.
Appellee Annette R. Phillips worked as a bartender at a
Hooters restaurant in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. She
was employed since 1989 by appellant Hooters of Myrtle
Beach (HOMB), a franchisee of appellant Hooters of
America (collectively Hooters).
Phillips alleges that in June 1996, Gerald Brooks, a
Hooters official and the brother of HOMB's principal
owner, sexually harassed her by grabbing and slapping
her buttocks. After appealing to her manager for help
and being told to "let it go," she quit her job. Phillips
then contacted Hooters through an attorney claiming
that the attack and the restaurant's failure to address it
violated her Title VII rights. Hooters responded that she
was required to submit her claims to arbitration
according to a binding agreement to arbitrate between
the parties.
This agreement arose in 1994 during the
implementation of Hooters' alternative dispute
resolution program. As part of that program, the
company conditioned eligibility 
[173 F.3d 936]
 for raises,
transfers, and promotions upon an employee signing an
"Agreement to arbitrate employment-related disputes."
The agreement provides that Hooters and the employee
each agree to arbitrate all disputes arising out of
employment, including "any claim of discrimination,
sexual harassment, retaliation, or wrongful discharge,
whether arising under federal or state law." The
agreement further states that
the employee and the company agree to resolve any claims pursuant
to the company's rules and procedures for alternative resolution of
employment-related disputes, as promulgated by the company from
time to time ("the rules"). Company will make available or provide
a copy of the rules upon written request of the employee.
The employees of HOMB were initially given a copy of
this agreement at an all-staff meeting held on November
20, 1994. HOMB's general manager, Gene Fulcher, told
the employees to review the agreement for five days and
that they would then be asked to accept or reject the
agreement. No employee, however, was given a copy of
Hooters' arbitration rules and procedures. Phillips
signed the agreement on November 25, 1994. When her
personnel file was updated in April 1995, Phillips again
signed the agreement.
After Phillips quit her job in June 1996, Hooters sent to
her attorney a copy of the Hooters rules then in effect.
Phillips refused to arbitrate the dispute.
Hooters filed suit in November 1996 to compel
arbitration under 9 U.S.C. 
§
 4. Phillips defended on the
grounds that the agreement to arbitrate was
unenforceable. Phillips also asserted individual and class
counterclaims against Hooters for violations of Title VII
and for a declaration that the arbitration agreements
were unenforceable against the class. In response,
Hooters requested that the district court stay the
proceedings on the counterclaims until after arbitration,
9 U.S.C. 
§
 3.
In March 1998, the district court denied Hooters'
motions to compel arbitration and stay proceedings on
the counterclaims. The court found that there was no
meeting of the minds on all of the material terms of the
agreement and even if there were, Hooters' promise to
arbitrate was illusory. In addition, the court found that
the arbitration agreement was unconscionable and void
for reasons of public policy. Hooters filed this
interlocutory appeal, 9 U.S.C. 
§
 16.
II.
The benefits of arbitration are widely recognized.
Parties agree to arbitrate to secure "streamlined
proceedings and expeditious results [that] will best serve
their needs." Mitsubishi Motors Corp. v. Soler Chrysler-
Plymouth, Inc., 473 U.S. 614, 633, 105 S.Ct. 3346, 87
L.Ed.2d 444 (1985). The arbitration of disputes enables
parties to avoid the costs associated with pursuing a
judicial resolution of their grievances. By one estimate,
litigating a typical employment dispute costs at least
$50,000 and takes two and one-half years to resolve.
Amicus Brief for Society of Professionals in Dispute
Resolution at 2-3 (citing Baxter, Arbitration or
Litigation for Employment Civil Rights?, 2 Individual
Employment Rights 19 (1993 94); Maltby, The
Projected Impact of the Model Employment
Termination Act, Annals of the Am. Acad. of Pol. and
Soc. Sci. (Nov. 1994)). Further, the adversarial nature of
litigation diminishes the possibility that the parties will
be able to salvage their relationship. For these reasons
parties agree to arbitrate and trade "the procedures and
opportunity for review of the courtroom for the
simplicity, informality, and expedition of arbitration."
Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp., 500 U.S. 20,
31, 111 S.Ct. 1647, 114 L.Ed.2d 26 (1991) (internal
quotation marks omitted).
In support of arbitration, Congress passed the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA), ch. 213, 43 Stat. 883 (1925)
(codified as amended at 9 U.S.C. 
§
 1 et seq.). "Its 
[173
F.3d 937]
 purpose was to reverse the longstanding
judicial hostility to arbitration agreements that had
existed at English common law and had been adopted by
American courts, and to place arbitration agreements
upon the same footing as other contracts." Gilmer, 500
U.S. at 24, 111 S.Ct. 1647. The FAA manifests "a liberal
federal policy favoring arbitration agreements." Moses
H. Cone Mem'l Hosp. v. Mercury Constr. Corp., 460
U.S. 1, 24, 103 S.Ct. 927, 74 L.Ed.2d 765 (1983). When a
valid agreement to arbitrate exists between the parties
and covers the matter in dispute, the FAA commands
the federal courts to stay any ongoing judicial
proceedings, 9 U.S.C. 
§
 3, and to compel arbitration, id.
§
 4.
The threshold question is whether claims such as
Phillips' are even arbitrable. The EEOC as amicus curiae
contends that employees cannot agree to arbitrate Title
VII claims in predispute agreements. We disagree. The
Supreme Court has made it plain that judicial protection
of arbitral agreements extends to agreements to
arbitrate statutory discrimination claims. In Gilmer v.
Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp., the Court noted that
"`[b]y agreeing to arbitrate a statutory claim, a party
does not forgo the substantive rights afforded by the
statute; it only submits to their resolution in an arbitral,
rather than a judicial, forum.'" 500 U.S. at 26, 111 S.Ct.
1647 (alteration in original) (quoting Mitsubishi
Motors, 473 U.S. at 628, 105 S.Ct. 3346). Thus, a party
must be held to the terms of its bargain unless Congress
intends to preclude waiver of a judicial forum for the
statutory claims at issue. Such an intent, however, must
"be discoverable in the text of the [substantive statute],
its legislative history, or an `inherent conflict' between
arbitration and the [statute's] underlying purposes." Id.
The EEOC argues that in passing the Civil Rights Act of
1991, Pub. L. No. 102-166, 105 Stat. 1071, Congress
evinced an intent to prohibit predispute agreements to
arbitrate claims arising under Title VII. This circuit,
however, has already rejected this argument. Austin v.
Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc., 78 F.3d 875,
881-82 (4th Cir.1996). The Civil Rights Act of 1991
provided that "Where appropriate and to the extent
authorized by law, the use of alternative means of
dispute resolution, including . . . arbitration, is
encouraged to resolve disputes arising under [Title
VII]." Pub. L. No. 102-166, 
§
 118, 105 Stat. at 1081. In
Austin, we stated that this language "could not be any
more clear in showing Congressional favor towards
arbitration." 78 F.3d at 881. We also noted that the
legislative history did not establish a contrary intent nor
was there an "inherent conflict" between the Civil
Rights Act and arbitration. Id. at 881-82. This holding is
in step with our sister circuits which have also rejected
the EEOC's argument. See, e.g., Rosenberg v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc., 170 F.3d 1, 4-9 (1st
Cir.1999); Seus v. John Nuveen & Co., 146 F.3d 175,
182-83 (3d Cir.1998), cert. denied, ___ U.S. ___, 119
S.Ct. 1028, 143 L.Ed.2d 38 (1999); Patterson v. Tenet
Healthcare, Inc., 113 F.3d 832, 837 (8th Cir.1997). But
see Duffield v. Robertson Stephens & Co., 144 F.3d
1182, 1189-1200 (9th Cir.), cert. denied, ___ U.S. ___,
119 S.Ct. 465, 142 L.Ed.2d 418 (1998).
III.
Predispute agreements to arbitrate Title VII claims are
thus valid and enforceable. The question remains
whether a binding arbitration agreement between
Phillips and Hooters exists and compels Phillips to
submit her Title VII claims to arbitration. The FAA
provides that agreements "to settle by arbitration a
controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or
transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of any contract." 9 U.S.C. 
§
 2.
"It [i]s for the court, not the arbitrator, to decide in the
first instance whether the dispute [i]s to be resolved 
[173
F.3d 938]
 through arbitration." AT & T Techs., Inc. v.
Communications Workers of Am., 475 U.S. 643, 651,
106 S.Ct. 1415, 89 L.Ed.2d 648 (1986); see also A.T.
Massey Coal Co. v. International Union, 799 F.2d 142,
146 (4th Cir.1986) ("[W]hether there is a contract to
arbitrate `is undeniably an issue for judicial
determination.'" (quoting AT & T Techs., 475 U.S. at
649, 106 S.Ct. 1415)). In so deciding, we "`engage in a
limited review to ensure that the dispute is
arbitrable—i.e., that a valid agreement to arbitrate exists
between the parties and that the specific dispute falls
within the substantive scope of that agreement.'" Glass
v. Kidder Peabody & Co., 114 F.3d 446, 453 (4th
Cir.1997) (quoting Paine-Webber Inc. v. Hartmann, 921
F.2d 507, 511 (3d Cir.1990)).
Hooters argues that Phillips gave her assent to a bilateral
agreement to arbitrate. That contract provided for the
resolution by arbitration of all employment-related
disputes, including claims arising under Title VII.
Hooters claims the agreement to arbitrate is valid
because Phillips twice signed it voluntarily. Thus, it
argues the courts are bound to enforce it and compel
arbitration.
We disagree. The judicial inquiry, while highly
circumscribed, is not focused solely on an examination
for contractual formation defects such as lack of mutual
assent and want of consideration. Virginia Carolina
Tools, Inc. v. International Tool Supply, Inc., 984 F.2d
113, 118-19 (4th Cir.1993) (holding that continued
existence of arbitration agreement is matter for judicial
determination). Courts also can investigate the existence
of "such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract." 9 U.S.C. 
§
 2. However, the
grounds for revocation must relate specifically to the
arbitration clause and not just to the contract as a whole.
Prima Paint Corp. v. Flood & Conklin Mfg. Co., 388
U.S. 395, 402-04, 87 S.Ct. 1801, 18 L.Ed.2d 1270 (1967);
see also Wick v. Atlantic Marine, Inc., 605 F.2d 166, 168
(5th Cir.1979). In this case, the challenge goes to the
validity of the arbitration agreement itself. Hooters
materially breached the arbitration agreement by
promulgating rules so egregiously unfair as to constitute
a complete default of its contractual obligation to draft
arbitration rules and to do so in good faith.
Hooters and Phillips agreed to settle any disputes
between them not in a judicial forum, but in another
neutral forum— arbitration. Their agreement provided
that Hooters was responsible for setting up such a forum
by promulgating arbitration rules and procedures. To
this end, Hooters instituted a set of rules in July 1996.
1
The Hooters rules when taken as a whole, however, are
so one-sided that their only possible purpose is to
undermine the neutrality of the proceeding. The rules
require the employee to provide the company notice of
her claim at the outset, including "the nature of the
Claim" and "the specific act(s) or omissions(s) which are
the basis of the Claim." Rule 6-2(1), (2). Hooters, on the
other hand, is not required to file any responsive
pleadings or to notice its defenses. Additionally, at the
time of filing this notice, the employee must provide the
company with a list of all fact witnesses with a brief
summary of the facts known to each. Rule 6-2(5). The
company, however, is not required to reciprocate.
The Hooters rules also provide a mechanism for
selecting a panel of three arbitrators that is crafted to
ensure a biased decisionmaker. Rule 8. The employee
and Hooters each select an arbitrator, and the two
arbitrators in turn select a third. Good enough, except
that the employee's arbitrator and the third arbitrator
must be 
[173 F.3d 939]
 selected from a list of arbitrators
created exclusively by Hooters. This gives Hooters
control over the entire panel and places no limits
whatsoever on whom Hooters can put on the list. Under
the rules, Hooters is free to devise lists of partial
arbitrators who have existing relationships, financial or
familial, with Hooters and its management. In fact, the
rules do not even prohibit Hooters from placing its
managers themselves on the list. Further, nothing in the
rules restricts Hooters from punishing arbitrators who
rule against the company by removing them from the
list. Given the unrestricted control that one party
(Hooters) has over the panel, the selection of an
impartial decision maker would be a surprising result.
Nor is fairness to be found once the proceedings are
begun. Although Hooters may expand the scope of
arbitration to any matter, "whether related or not to the
Employee's Claim," the employee cannot raise "any
matter not included in the Notice of Claim." Rules 4-2,
8-9. Similarly, Hooters is permitted to move for
summary dismissal of employee claims before a hearing
is held whereas the employee is not permitted to seek
summary judgment. Rule 14-4. Hooters, but not the
employee, may record the arbitration hearing "by audio
or videotaping or by verbatim transcription." Rule 18-1.
The rules also grant Hooters the right to bring suit in
court to vacate or modify an arbitral award when it can
show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the
panel exceeded its authority. Rule 21-4. No such right is
granted to the employee.
In addition, the rules provide that upon 30 days notice
Hooters, but not the employee, may cancel the
agreement to arbitrate. Rule 23-1. Moreover, Hooters
reserves the right to modify the rules, "in whole or in
part," whenever it wishes and "without notice" to the
employee. Rule 24-1. Nothing in the rules even
prohibits Hooters from changing the rules in the middle
of an arbitration proceeding.
If by odd chance the unfairness of these rules were not
apparent on their face, leading arbitration experts have
decried their one-sidedness. George Friedman, senior
vice president of the American Arbitration Association
(AAA), testified that the system established by the
Hooters rules so deviated from minimum due process
standards that the Association would refuse to arbitrate
under those rules. George Nicolau, former president of
both the National Academy of Arbitrators and the
International Society of Professionals in Dispute
Resolution, attested that the Hooters rules "are
inconsistent with the concept of fair and impartial
arbitration." He also testified that he was "certain that
reputable designating agencies, such as the AAA and
Jams/Endispute, would refuse to administer a program
so unfair and one-sided as this one." Additionally,
Dennis Nolan, professor of labor law at the University
of South Carolina, declared that the Hooters rules "do
not satisfy the minimum requirements of a fair
arbitration system." He found that the "most serious
flaw" was that the "mechanism [for selecting arbitrators]
violates the most fundamental aspect of justice, namely
an impartial decision maker." Finally, Lewis Maltby,
member of the Board of Directors of the AAA, testified
that "This is without a doubt the most unfair arbitration
program I have ever encountered."
In a similar vein, two major arbitration associations
have filed amicus briefs with this court. The National
Academy of Arbitrators stated that the Hooters rules
"violate fundamental concepts of fairness . . . and the
integrity of the arbitration process." Likewise, the
Society of Professionals in Dispute Resolution noted
that "[i]t would be hard to imagine a more unfair
method of selecting a panel of arbitrators." It
characterized the Hooters arbitration system as
"deficient to the point of illegitimacy" and "so one sided,
it is hard to believe that it was even intended to be fair."
[173 F.3d 940]
 We hold that the promulgation of so
many biased rules—especially the scheme whereby one
party to the proceeding so controls the arbitral
panel—breaches the contract entered into by the parties.
The parties agreed to submit their claims to
arbitration—a system whereby disputes are fairly
resolved by an impartial third party. Hooters by contract
took on the obligation of establishing such a system. By
creating a sham system unworthy even of the name of
arbitration, Hooters completely failed in performing its
contractual duty.
Moreover, Hooters had a duty to perform its obligations
in good faith. See Restatement (Second) of Contracts 
§
205 (1981) ("Every contract imposes upon each party a
duty of good faith and fair dealing in its performance
and its enforcement."); Virginia Vermiculite, Ltd. v.
W.R. Grace & Co., 156 F.3d 535, 542 (4th Cir.1998)
("`The courts could leave all discretion in performance
unbridled. . . . No U.S. court now takes this approach. . .
. Thus, contractual discretion is presumptively bridled
by the law of contracts—by the covenant of good faith
implied in every contract.'") (quoting Steven J. Burton &
Eric G. Anderson, Contractual Good Faith 46-47
(1995)). Good faith "emphasizes faithfulness to an
agreed common purpose and consistency with the
justified expectations of the other party." Restatement
(Second) of Contracts 
§
 205 cmt. a. Bad faith includes
the "evasion of the spirit of the bargain" and an "abuse of
a power to specify terms." Id. 
§
 205 cmt. d. By agreeing
to settle disputes in arbitration, Phillips agreed to the
prompt and economical resolution of her claims. She
could legitimately expect that arbitration would not
entail procedures so wholly one-sided as to present a
stacked deck. Thus we conclude that the Hooters rules
also violate the contractual obligation of good faith.
Given Hooters' breaches of the arbitration agreement
and Phillips' desire not to be bound by it, we hold that
rescission is the proper remedy. Generally, "rescission
will not be granted for a minor or casual breach of a
contract, but only for those breaches which defeat the
object of the contracting parties." Rogers v. Salisbury
Brick Corp., 299 S.C. 141, 382 S.E.2d 915, 917 (1989);
see also Hogue v. Pellerin Laundry Mach. Sales Co., 353
F.2d 772, 774 (8th Cir.1965) (noting rescission is
permitted "`for any breach of contract of so material and
substantial a nature as would constitute a defense to an
action brought by the party in default for a refusal to
proceed with the contract.'" (quoting Williston on
Contracts 
§
 1467 (rev. ed.))). As we have explained,
Hooters' breach is by no means insubstantial; its
performance under the contract was so egregious that
the result was hardly recognizable as arbitration at all.
We therefore permit Phillips to cancel the agreement
and thus Hooters' suit to compel arbitration must fail.
2
IV.
We respect fully the Supreme Court's pronouncement
that "questions of arbitrability must be addressed with a
healthy regard for the federal policy favoring
arbitration." Moses H. Cone, 460 U.S. at 24, 103 S.Ct.
927. Our decision should not be misread: We are not
holding that the agreement before us is unenforceable
because the arbitral proceedings are too abbreviated. An
arbitral forum need not replicate the judicial forum.
"[W]e are well past the time when judicial suspicion of
the desirability of arbitration and of the competence of
arbitral tribunals inhibited 
[173 F.3d 941]
 the
development of arbitration as an alternative means of
dispute resolution." Mitsubishi Motors, 473 U.S. at 626-
27, 105 S.Ct. 3346; see also Gilmer, 500 U.S. at 31-32,
111 S.Ct. 1647 (rejecting abbreviated discovery and lack
of written opinions as reasons to inhibit arbitration of
statutory claims).
Nor should our decision be misunderstood as permitting
a full-scale assault on the fairness of proceedings before
the matter is submitted to arbitration. Generally,
objections to the nature of arbitral proceedings are for
the arbitrator to decide in the first instance. Only after
arbitration may a party then raise such challenges if they
meet the narrow grounds set out in 9 U.S.C. 
§
 10 for
vacating an arbitral award. In the case before us, we only
reach the content of the arbitration rules because their
promulgation was the duty of one party under the
contract. The material breach of this duty warranting
rescission is an issue of substantive arbitrability and thus
is reviewable before arbitration. See Glass, 114 F.3d at
453-56. This case, however, is the exception that proves
the rule: fairness objections should generally be made to
the arbitrator, subject only to limited post-arbitration
judicial review as set forth in section 10 of the FAA.
By promulgating this system of warped rules, Hooters so
skewed the process in its favor that Phillips has been
denied arbitration in any meaningful sense of the word.
To uphold the promulgation of this aberrational scheme
under the heading of arbitration would undermine, not
advance, the federal policy favoring alternative dispute
resolution. This we refuse to do.
The judgment of the district court is affirmed, and the
case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
AFFIRMED AND REMANDED.