I. INTRODUCTION
This matter is before the court on an appeal from orders
of the district court entered on February 5, 1993, and
July 6, 1993, imposing sanctions on appellants Arnold
Levin and Harris J. Sklar pursuant to Fed. R.Civ.P. 11.
We will set forth the background of this case in detail as
the issues should be considered in the context of both
this case and the related litigation we will describe. The
district court's opinion concluding that there had been
Rule 11 violations is published as Greenfield v. U.S.
Healthcare, Inc., 146 F.R.D. 118 (E.D.Pa. 1993), and its
subsequent opinion fixing the amount of the sanctions is
dated July 6, 1993. Greenfield v. U.S. Healthcare, Inc.,
No. 92-6345, 1993 WL 257315 (E.D.Pa. July 6, 1993).
This action arose in the aftermath of an article in the
Wall Street Journal published on November 4, 1992,
entitled "U.S. Healthcare Insiders Sold Stock Before Last
Week's 17% Price Decline." The article recited that U.S.
Healthcare, Inc. insiders, including Leonard Abramson,
its chairman and president, had been heavy sellers of its
stock before a 17% two-day drop in its price in the week
before publication of the article. The article indicated
the drop had been precipitated by disappointing
earnings.
James R. Malone, Jr., a member of the Haverford,
Pennsylvania, law firm of Greenfield & Chimicles, who
read the article on the morning it was published, was
interested in its contents because his firm specialized in
securities litigation. Indeed, in an extraordinary
allegation, not denied by Malone, U.S. Healthcare in the
Rule 11 proceedings charged that Greenfield &
Chimicles maintained a list of corporate stockholders
available to become plaintiffs in securities litigation.
1
Robert K. Greenfield was on that list.
2 
 It is undisputed
that after Malone read the article he examined a
"representative sampling of stories relating to U.S.
Healthcare," as well as a report on background
information on the company. He also obtained
considerable other information about U.S. Healthcare,
including filings it had made with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
Malone does not contend that at the time that he was
doing this research he had a client who had expressed
any interest in the article to him. Rather, Malone was
seeking to generate a lawsuit. Thus, in the pithy words
of the district court, "[h]aving a case but no client," he
called Greenfield who lives in Florida to discuss the U.S.
Healthcare situation. Malone described the Wall Street
Journal article to Greenfield and established that he
owned stock in U.S. Healthcare. Malone asked
Greenfield whether he would like Greenfield &
Chimicles to file a suit on his behalf if the firm believed
that there had been actionable wrongdoing, and
Greenfield answered affirmatively. Within hours
Malone determined that a certain class of U.S.
Healthcare stockholders had "a legitimate and cognizable
legal claim" stemming in part from the insiders' stock
sales.
Events continued to unfold rapidly on November 4,
1992, for on that day Malone prepared and filed a class
action complaint on behalf of Greenfield under section
10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 15 U.S.C.
ยง
 78j(b). The gravamen of the complaint was that U.S.
Healthcare and Abramson had issued false and
misleading statements which were filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and which caused
[22 F.3d 1276]
 Greenfield and the stockholder class to
purchase U.S. Healthcare stock at artificially inflated
prices. The complaint asserted controlling person
liability against Abramson under section 20 of the
Securities Exchange Act. 15 U.S.C. 
ยง
 78t. In the
complaint, Malone recited that Greenfield fairly and
adequately could represent the interest of the class of
stockholders on whose behalf the action was being
brought. Inasmuch as Malone mailed the complaint to
Greenfield on November 4, 1992, Malone filed it before
Greenfield received it. Obviously Malone did not think
it important for Greenfield to see the complaint before
it was filed even though Malone regards Greenfield as a
distinguished retired corporate attorney.
On November 5, 1992, Malone on behalf of Allen
Strunk filed a second class action against U.S. Healthcare
and Abramson. The Strunk action repeated the
allegations word for word from the Greenfield case
except that the name of the plaintiff and the number of
shares he owned were changed. Malone filed this action
after Fred Taylor Isquith, an attorney in New York,
contacted him and asked him to represent Strunk.
Malone and Strunk's New York lawyers were not the
only attorneys interested in the U.S. Healthcare
situation. On November 4, 1992, appellant Arnold Levin
of the Philadelphia firm of Levin, Fishbein, Sedran &
Berman, also read the Wall Street Journal article. Levin
and his firm have what he characterized as "a long-
standing professional relationship" with Greenfield &
Chimicles, and Levin had a high regard for Greenfield &
Chimicles' ethical standards and skill in handling federal
securities law suits. On November 4, 1992, after Levin
had read the article, Malone called him to discuss the
merits of bringing a section 10(b) action against U.S.
Healthcare and Abramson. Malone mentioned the Wall
Street Journal article, and said he had done research into
whether a section 10(b) action could be brought.
Malone also told Levin that he had prepared such a
complaint. Levin requested that Malone fax him a copy
of the complaint, and Malone promptly did so. Levin
then read the Greenfield complaint and reread the Wall
Street Journal article and concluded, as he set forth in
his affidavit, that "[b]ased upon my experience and
understanding from the two documents," and in
"reliance on the integrity of the pre-filing investigation
of Greenfield & Chimicles," the section 10(b) action had
merit.
There was even more interest in the U.S. Healthcare
situation for on November 4, 1992, appellant Harris J.
Sklar, a Philadelphia attorney in individual practice, also
read the article. According to his affidavit, Sklar
discussed the possibility of bringing an action against
U.S. Healthcare with his client Scott Garr who was a
U.S. Healthcare stockholder, and Garr authorized Sklar
to bring the case on a class action basis. Sklar, however,
saw the need to obtain co-counsel and consequently
called Levin, as he had worked with him in the past.
Levin then told Sklar of his dealings with Malone, and
Levin and Sklar discussed the possibility of a suit. Sklar
asked Levin to fax him a copy of the Greenfield
complaint and Levin did so. Sklar then reviewed the
complaint and, in his words as set forth in his affidavit,
"[b]ased on my understanding of the securities laws and
the facts as described in the Wall Street Journal," he
determined that the complaint had merit. Sklar thus
again spoke to Levin and indicated that Levin could file
the class action on behalf of Scott Garr and Patricia
Garr, his wife. On November 6, 1992, Levin and Sklar
filed that complaint which replicated the Greenfield and
Strunk complaints except that the names of the plaintiffs
and the number of shares they owned were changed.
3
There was now an extraordinary development. On
November 6, 1992, the same day that Levin and Sklar
filed the Garr complaint, U.S. Healthcare and Abramson
moved in the district court for the imposition of
sanctions pursuant to Rule 11 in the Greenfield, Strunk,
and Garr actions. This motion was a formidable
document, as with attachments it exceeded 100 pages.
At oral argument we asked U.S. Healthcare's attorney,
Alan J. Davis, how it was possible that he filed this
motion on the same day the Garr complaint was filed.
He explained that he had anticipated that following the
filing of 
[22 F.3d 1277]
 the Greenfield complaint there
would be additional complaints and accordingly his firm
had a person waiting in the clerk's office to obtain copies
of them when they were filed.
4 
 He further explained
that in class actions additional complaints are generated
so that the original attorney will have allies when a vote
is taken to determine the lead attorney. The lead
attorney position is coveted as it is likely to bring its
occupant the largest share of the fees generated by the
litigation.
In their brief, U.S. Healthcare and Abramson explained
the basis for the motion in detail. They asserted that
Malone, Levin, and Sklar failed to conduct "even the
most cursory factual and legal investigation" of the case
and that if they had done so they would have
determined that the complaints had no basis in fact or
law. The brief indicated that the three complaints
demonstrated the "all too familiar pattern of an instant
class action lawsuit based on newspaper reports
followed by a covey of cut and paste copycat
complaints."
As if what we have described is not remarkable enough,
there was yet an additional extraordinary development
in the Greenfield case. On November 8, 1992, Robert K.
Greenfield finally read the complaint, and at that time
came to the realization that he had made a mistake in
bringing the action because he knew of no basis for it
and because his son had substantial business dealings
with U.S. Healthcare. Thus, he directed Malone to
withdraw the complaint. When U.S. Healthcare and
Abramson learned of Robert K. Greenfield's position,
they supplemented their motion for Rule 11 sanctions to
assert that Malone had failed to make a reasonable
inquiry into whether Greenfield fairly and adequately
could protect the interests of the plaintiff class.
Malone filed a declaration in opposition to the Rule 11
motion.
5 
 On December 10, 1992, the district court held
an evidentiary hearing on the motion at which
Greenfield testified. On December 15, 1992, the court
entered an order directing Malone, Isquith, Levin, and
Sklar to submit documentation that each "conducted a
reasonable pre-filing inquiry into the facts and law"
supporting the actions.
Thereafter, the district court filed its reported opinion
of February 4, 1993. After setting forth the background
of the case at length, the court found that Malone could
not be sanctioned under Rule 11 with respect to the
accuracy of the information on which he had predicated
the Greenfield complaint because his inquiry into the
underlying facts "was reasonable under the
circumstances." 146 F.R.D. at 125. However, the court
found that Malone had violated Rule 11 with respect to
the allegation in the complaint that Greenfield fairly and
adequately could protect the interests of the class. 146
F.R.D. at 125-26. But it also found that it could not say
that Malone had made an inadequate inquiry into
Strunk's ability fairly and adequately to protect the class.
Accordingly, as Malone's factual inquiry into the merits
of the case against U.S. Healthcare and Abramson had
been reasonable, the court did not impose sanctions in
the Strunk action.
The district court next discussed whether sanctions
should be imposed on Levin and Sklar. In this regard the
court pointed out that Levin cited our opinion in Lewis
v. Curtis, 671 F.2d 779 (3d Cir.), cert. denied, 459 U.S.
880, 103 S.Ct. 176, 74 L.Ed.2d 144 (1982), in which we
indicated that reliance on an article in the Wall Street
Journal is not based "on an insubstantial or meaningless
investigation" and that plaintiffs and their attorneys
"need not make further expenditures to prove
independently that which may be read with some
confidence of truthfulness and accuracy in a respected
financial journal." The court observed that Lewis was
decided under Fed.R.Civ.P. 23.1 and that we have never
applied that case under Rule 11. It then held that Rule 11
imposes a "nondelegable duty upon the signing attorney
to conduct his own independent analysis of the facts and
law which form the basis of a pleading or motion,"
citing Pavelic & LeFlore Marvel Entertainment Group,
493 U.S. 120, 125-27, 110 S.Ct. 456, 459-60, 107 L.Ed.2d
438 (1989). The court rejected Levin's 
[22 F.3d 1278]
argument that he could rely on the integrity of the
investigation by Greenfield & Chimicles, and it
therefore ruled that Sklar could not rely on that
investigation either. Ultimately the court held "that
Levin and Sklar sought to act more quickly than
fulfilling their duty would have allowed" and that
"Levin[`s] and Sklar's inquiry, or lack thereof, was
unreasonable under the circumstances and a violation of
Rule 11." 146 F.R.D. at 122-28.
The court provided for the following sanctions. It
required that Malone, Levin, and Sklar pay all of U.S.
Healthcare's and Abramson's reasonable costs and
attorney's fees incurred to that time, that the Greenfield
and Garr complaints be dismissed without prejudice,
and that the matter be referred to the Disciplinary Board
of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania for an
investigation into whether the conduct of Malone,
Levin, and Sklar constituted a violation of the
Pennsylvania Rules of Professional Conduct. It directed
the attorneys for U.S. Healthcare and Abramson to file
an affidavit setting forth their costs and attorneys' fees.
Of course, the court did not dismiss the Strunk action as
there had been no Rule 11 violation in that case.
Nevertheless, that case was dismissed without prejudice
by stipulation on February 23, 1993. At oral argument,
we were advised that none of the dismissed actions have
been reinstituted. Thus, since February 23, 1993, there
has been no merits litigation in any of the cases in the
district court. The Rule 11 proceedings were completed
on July 6, 1993, when, following its receipt of affidavits
of costs and attorney's fees, the district court entered a
memorandum opinion and order requiring Malone,
Levin, and Sklar respectively to pay sanctions of
$24,697.50, $1,428.00, and $1,428.00. Malone paid his
sanction and did not thereafter appeal, but Levin and
Sklar obtained stays and have appealed.
II. DISCUSSION
Insofar as significant here, Rule 11 provides that:
The signature of an attorney or party constitutes a certificate by the
signer that the signer has read the pleading, motion, or other paper;
that to the best of the signer's knowledge, information and belief
formed after reasonable inquiry it is well grounded in fact and is
warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the
extension, modification, or reversal or existing law, and that it is
not interposed for any improper purpose, such as to harass or cause
unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
6
The signer's signature on a pleading, motion, or other
paper certifies the signer has done three things: (1) read
the pleading, motion, or paper; (2) made a reasonable
inquiry into the contents of the pleading, motion, or
other paper and concluded that it is well grounded in
fact and warranted in law; and (3) has not acted in bad
faith in signing the document. See CTC Imports and
Exports v. Nigerian Petroleum Corp., 951 F.2d 573, 578
(3d Cir. 1991). The court determines the reasonableness
of an inquiry by applying an objective standard. See
Business Guides, Inc. v. Chromatic Communications
Enters., Inc., 498 U.S. 533, 548-50, 111 S.Ct. 922, 932-
33, 112 L.Ed.2d 1140 (1991); Bradgate Assocs., Inc. v.
Fellows, Read & Assocs., 999 F.2d 745, 752 (3d
Cir.1993). It is clear that the signer has a "personal,
nondelegable responsibility" to comply with the
requirements of Rule 11 before signing the document.
Pavelic & LeFlore v. Marvel Entertainment Group, 493
U.S. at 127, 110 S.Ct. at 460. See In re Mitchell, 901 F.2d
1179, 1188 & n. 23 (3d Cir.1990).
A signer's obligation personally to comply with the
requirements of Rule 11 clearly does not preclude the
signer from any reliance on information from other
persons. For example, no one could argue fairly that it
would be unreasonable for an attorney to rely on
witnesses to an accident before bringing a personal
injury action. After all, the accident hardly can be
reconstructed for the benefit of a plaintiff's attorney.
Similarly, an attorney is not always foreclosed from
relying on information from other persons. Thus, in
CTC Imports and Exports, we stated that a
determination 
[22 F.3d 1279]
 of whether there has been
"`a reasonable inquiry may depend on ... whether [the
signer] depended on forwarding counsel or another
member of the bar.'" 951 F.2d at 578 (quoting Notes of
Advisory Committee on Rules, 1983 Amendment,
Fed.R.Civ.P. 11, reprinted at 97 F.R.D. 165, 199).
Furthermore, as we recognized in CTC Imports and
Exports, inasmuch as the standard under Rule 11 is "fact
specific," the court must consider all the material
circumstances in evaluating the signer's conduct. 951
F.2d at 578.
It is also important to observe that when the court
examines the sufficiency of the inquiry into the facts and
law, it must avoid drawing on the wisdom of hindsight
and should test the signer's conduct by determining
what was reasonable when the document was
submitted. Bradgate Assocs., 999 F.2d at 752; CTC
Imports and Exports, 951 F.2d at 578. Thus, if under an
objective standard, the signer made a reasonable inquiry
both as to the fact and the law at the time a document
was submitted, subsequent developments showing that
the signer's position was incorrect will not subject the
signer to Rule 11 sanctions for having submitted the
document. On the other hand, a signer making an
inadequate inquiry into the sufficiency of the facts and
law underlying a document will not be saved from a
Rule 11 sanction by the stroke of luck that the document
happened to be justified. As the court indicated in Vista
Mfg., Inc. v. Trac-4 Inc., 131 F.R.D. 134, 138
(N.D.Ind.1990), "A shot in the dark is a sanctionable
event, even if it somehow hits the mark." The court in
Vista correctly stated the law, for if a lucky shot could
save the signer from sanctions, the purpose of Rule 11
"to deter baseless filings" would be frustrated. Cooter &
Gell v. Hartmarx Corp., 496 U.S. 384, 393, 110 S.Ct.
2447, 2454, 110 L.Ed.2d 359 (1990).
There is also a temporal element in a determination of
whether an inquiry was reasonable. Thus, we have
recognized that a factor in ascertaining the
reasonableness of the signer's inquiry is the amount of
time available to investigate the facts and law involved.
Bradgate Assocs., 999 F.2d at 752; CTC Imports and
Exports, 951 F.2d at 578. Accordingly, if a client comes
into an attorney's office for an initial consultation
concerning a possible case one day before the statute of
limitations will run, the attorney might be justified in
filing a complaint predicated on an inquiry which would
be inadequate if the attorney had more time for
investigation. On the other hand, an attorney with a
great deal of time to file a document might be expected
to make a more comprehensive inquiry than an attorney
working under severe time constraints.
In reviewing a district court's Rule 11 determination, we
use the abuse of discretion standard. Cooter & Gell v.
Hartmarx Corp., 496 U.S. at 405, 110 S.Ct. at 2461. See
also Lony v. E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co., 935 F.2d
604, 615 (3d Cir.1991). However, this standard may
incorporate other standards of review, for the Supreme
Court has indicated that a district court "would
necessarily abuse its discretion if it based its ruling on an
erroneous view of the law or on a clearly erroneous
assessment of the evidence." Cooter & Gell v. Hartmarx
Corp., 496 U.S. at 405, 110 S.Ct. at 2461.
Application of the foregoing principles requires us to
affirm. We, of course, are exercising the abuse of
discretion standard, for this is not a case in which the
historical facts underlying the court's determination are
in dispute. As Levin and Sklar explain in their brief:
"Here, Levin acquired the knowledge from one whom
he knew to be competent securities law counsel,
Malone, coupled with the knowledge Levin obtained
from the Wall Street Journal, and his experienced
understanding of the securities laws. [sic] Levin passed
this information on to Sklar so that he too could make
the same certification." Brief at 17.
We do not doubt that sometimes it is difficult to
reconcile the tension between the requirement that a
signer personally discharge the Rule 11 obligations and
the acknowledgement that a signer may rely on another
party's inquiry in some cases. But this appeal presents no
difficulties. Malone's declaration described the scope of
his inquiry in great detail. He obtained a representative
sampling of stories regarding U.S. Healthcare and a
"disclo" report giving a great deal of financial
information regarding U.S. 
[22 F.3d 1280]
 Healthcare,
including five-year figures showing sales, net income,
earnings per share, and growth rate. He also considered
financial ratios and examined forms filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission showing trading
in U.S. Healthcare stock by insiders. In fact, in the
district court's view, Malone's inquiry was inadequate
only as to Greenfield's status as the class representative.
7
On the other hand, Levin and Sklar relied only on the
Wall Street Journal article, the Greenfield complaint,
and Malone. They made no effort to examine the
numerous materials Malone assembled, and they cannot
justify their failure to have done so. They do not
contend that Malone would not at their request have
sent the materials to them. Alternatively, we see no
reason why they could not have seen the materials by
travelling the short distance from their offices in
Philadelphia to Malone's office in Haverford, a
Philadelphia suburb. We also point out that the
documents on which Malone relied were all accessible to
the public so that Levin and Sklar could have obtained
them themselves.
Furthermore, there were no time constraints requiring
Levin and Sklar to file the Garr complaint on an
expedited basis. The Wall Street Journal article was
published on November 4, 1992, and Levin and Sklar
filed the Garr complaint two days later. Levin and Sklar
do not contend that they were confronted with a statute
of limitations problem compelling immediate action. At
oral argument, counsel for U.S. Healthcare and
Abramson indicated that in his view the one year/three
year limitations rule recognized in Lampf, Pleva,
Lipkind, Prupis & Petigrow v. Gilbertson, 501 U.S. 350,
___, 111 S.Ct. 2773, 2782, 115 L.Ed.2d 321 (1991), was
applicable. While we neither endorse nor reject that
position as it has not been briefed, it is clear that there
could not have been a statute of limitations problem, as
the Wall Street Journal article described events in the
very recent past.
We also point out that Levin and Sklar have advanced
no other reason why the Garr complaint had to have
been filed within two days of the publication of the
article. They do not contend, for example, that the Garrs
needed emergency relief, nor do they suggest that U.S.
Healthcare or Abramson might have evaded process or
concealed assets if the suit had not been filed so quickly.
While at oral argument the suggestion was made that
class actions are brought quickly so that the attorney
filing the case may control the litigation, we would not
regard that reason as in any way detracting from the
reasonable inquiry otherwise required under Rule 11.
At bottom, there is no escape from the conclusion that
Levin and Sklar abdicated their own responsibilities and
relied excessively on Malone contrary to Rule 11.
Furthermore, they did not rely on Malone only as to
some small portion of the case. Rather, they relied on
his inquiry to justify the entire cause of action. Indeed,
they filed the complaint Malone had prepared, changing
only the name of the plaintiffs and the number of shares
owned. We recognize that it could be argued that it
would have been pointless for Levin and Sklar to make
an inquiry into the merits of the case sufficient to satisfy
Rule 11 as Malone already had done so. Yet Rule 11
requires that an attorney signing a pleading must make a
reasonable inquiry personally. The advantage of
duplicate personal inquiries is manifest: while one
attorney might find a complaint well founded in fact and
warranted by the law, another, even after examining the
materials available to the first attorney, could come to a
contrary conclusion. Overall, we conclude that the Rule
11 violation in this case is so clear that even on a plenary
review, we would uphold the sanctions imposed on
Levin and Sklar. Accordingly, under the deferential
abuse of discretion standard, we certainly must affirm
the district court's determination that sanctions were
required.
In reaching our result, we have not overlooked Levin's
and Sklar's reliance on Lewis v. Curtis, 671 F.2d 779.
Rather, we determine that the case does not help them.
In fact, in Lewis v. Curtis we did not discuss or even cite
Rule 11. Indeed, insofar as germane 
[22 F.3d 1281]
 here,
in Lewis v. Curtis we merely indicated that reliance on
an article in the Wall Street Journal is not based "on an
insubstantial or meaningless investigation" for purposes
of Rule 23.1. 671 F.2d at 788. Rule 23.1, however, deals
with the requirement in derivative actions that the
plaintiff verify certain allegations of the complaint. But
Rule 23.1 has no counterpart to the Rule 11 requirement
that a pleading, motion or other paper be signed only
after "reasonable inquiry." Thus, an attorney cannot rely
on Lewis v. Curtis in determining whether an inquiry is
reasonable under Rule 11.
There is another reason why Lewis v. Curtis is
inapposite and why Levin's and Sklar's reliance on the
Wall Street Journal never could have been sufficient in
this case. A significant aspect of the Garr complaint was
that U.S. Healthcare had been filing false and misleading
quarterly reports with the Securities and Exchange
Commission to the injury of Garr and the class. Yet
inasmuch as the Wall Street Journal article never
suggested that U.S. Healthcare had been filing false
reports, Levin and Sklar could not reasonably have
relied on the article for that information. Indeed, neither
Levin nor Sklar even asserts that he ever saw these
publicly available reports before they filed the Garr
complaint. We are at a total loss to understand how
attorneys can urge that they have made a reasonable
inquiry into the facts and the law of a case when their
complaint is predicated on allegedly false statements in
documents which they have not bothered to read.
Levin and Sklar seek to avoid sanctions by citing
language from our opinions in Doering v. Union
County Bd. of Chosen Freeholders, 857 F.2d 191, 194
(3d Cir.1988), and Gaiardo v. Ethyl Corp., 835 F.2d 479,
483 (3d Cir. 1987), that Rule 11 should be applied only
in "exceptional circumstances" or where the document
"is patently unmeritorious or frivolous." But these cases
can be of no comfort to Levin and Sklar. As we have
made clear, the sanctions in this case were not
predicated on a conclusion by the court that the Garr
complaint was unmeritorious. The Rule 11 problem is
that neither Levin nor Sklar made a reasonable inquiry
as required by Rule 11 before signing the complaint.
Furthermore, the suggestion that Rule 11 should be
used only in "exceptional circumstances" was intended
to explain that sanctions were not to be imposed merely
because there is a disagreement as to the correct
resolution of a matter in litigation. Gaiardo, 835 F.2d at
483.
Finally, Levin and Sklar urge that the district court
abused its discretion in imposing the monetary
sanctions. This contention is frivolous. In fact, the
monetary sanction of $1,428 imposed on each reflected
great restraint by the district court. Langer v. Monarch
Life Ins. Co., 966 F.2d 786, 811 (3d Cir.1992).
III. CONCLUSION
The orders of February 5, 1993, and July 6, 1993, will be
affirmed.