The argument in this cause presents three questions: 1.
Has Congress granted to the Bank of the United States,
an unlimited right of suing in the Courts of the United
States? 2. Could Congress constitutionally grant such a
right? and 3. Has the power of the Court been legally
and constitutionally exercised in this suit?
I have very little doubt that the public mind will be
easily reconciled to the decision of the Court here
rendered; for, whether necessary or unnecessary
originally, a state of things has now grown up, in some
of the States, which renders all [22 U.S. 872] the
protection necessary, that the general government can
give to this Bank. The policy of the decision is obvious,
that is, if the Bank is to be sustained; and few will
bestow upon its legal correctness, the reflection, that it
is necessary to test it by the constitution and laws, under
which it is rendered.
The Bank of the United States, is now identified with
the administration of the national government. It is an
immense machine, economically and beneficially applied
to the fiscal transactions of the nation. Attempts have
been made to dispense with it, and they have failed;
serious and very weighty doubts have been entertained
of its constitutionality, but they have been abandoned;
and it is now become the functionary that collects, the
depository that holds, the vehicle that transports, the
guard that protects, and the agent that distributes and
pays away, the millions that pass annually through the
national treasury; and all this, not only without expense
to the government, but after paying a large bonus, and
sustaining actual annual losses to a large amount;
furnishing the only possible means of embodying the
most ample security for so immense a charge.
Had its effects, however, and the views of its framers,
been confined exclusively to its fiscal uses, it is more
than probable that this suit, and the laws in which it
originated, would never have had existence. But it is
well known, that with that object was combined
another, of a very general, and not less important
character.
The expiration of the charter of the former Bank, led to
State creations of Banks; each new Bank increased [22
U.S. 873] the facilities of creating others; and the
necessities of the general government, both to make use
of the State Banks for their deposits, and to borrow
largely of all who would lend to them, produced that
rage for multiplying Banks, which, aided by the
emoluments derived to the States in their creation, and
the many individual incentives which they developed,
soon inundated the country with a new description of
bills of credit, against which it was obvious that the
provisions of the constitution opposed no adequate
inhibition.
A specie-paying Bank, with an overwhelming capital,
and the whole aid of the government deposits, presented
the only resource to which the government could resort,
to restore that power over the currency of the country,
which the framers of the constitution evidently intended
to give to Congress alone. But this necessarily involved a
restraint upon individual cupidity, and the exercise of
State power; and, in the nature of things, it was hardly
possible for the mighty effort necessary to put down an
evil spread so wide, and arrived to such maturity, to be
made without embodying against it an immense
moneyed combination, which could not fail of making
its influence to be felt, wherever its claimances could
reach, or its industry and wealth be brought to operate.
I believe, that the good sense of a people, who know that
they govern themselves, and feel that they have no
interests distinct from those of their government, would
readily concede to the Bank, thus circumstanced, some,
if not all the rights here [22 U.S. 874] contended for. But
I cannot persuade myself, that they have been conceded
in the extent which this decision affirms. Whatever
might be proper to be done by an amendment of the
constitution, this Court is only, at present, expounding
its existing provisions.
In the present instance, I cannot persuade myself, that
the constitution sanctions the vesting of the right of
action in this Bank, in cases in which the privilege is
exclusively personal, or in any case, merely on the
ground that a question might possibly be raised in it,
involving the constitution, or constitutionality of a law,
of the United States.
When laws were heretofore passed for raising a revenue
by a duty on stamped paper, the tax was quietly
acquiesced in, notwithstanding it entrenched so closely
on the unquestionable power of the States over the law
of contracts; but had the same law which declared void
contracts not written upon stamped paper, declared,
that every person holding such paper should be entitled
to bring his action "in any Circuit Court" of the United
States, it is confidently believed that there could have
been but one opinion on the constitutionality of such a
provision. The whole jurisdiction over contracts, might
thus have been taken from the State Courts, and
conferred upon those of the United States. Nor would
the evil have rested there; by a similar exercise of power,
imposing a stamp on deeds generally, jurisdiction over
the territory of the State, whoever might be parties,
even between citizens of the same State — jurisdiction of
suits instituted for the recovery of legacies [22 U.S. 875]
or distributive portions of intestates' estates —
jurisdiction, in fact, over almost every possible case,
might be transferred to the Courts of the United States.
Wills may be required to be executed on stamped paper;
taxes may be, and have been, imposed upon legacies and
distributions; and, in all such cases, there is not only a
possibility, but a probability, that a question may arise,
involving the constitutionality, construction, &c. of a
law of the United States. If the circumstance, that the
questions which the case involves, are to determine its
character, whether those questions be made in the case
or not, then every case here alluded to, may as well be
transferred to the jurisdiction of the United States, as
those to which this Bank is a party. But still farther, as
was justly insisted in argument, there is not a tract of
land in the United States, acquired under laws of the
United States, whatever be the number of mesne
transfers that it may have undergone, over which the
jurisdiction of the Courts of the United States might not
be extended by Congress, upon the very principle on
which the right of suit in this Bank is here maintained.
Nor is the case of the alien, put in argument, at all
inapplicable. The one acquires its character of individual
property, as the other does his political existence, under
a law of the United States; and there is not a suit which
may be instituted to recover the one, nor an action of
ejectment to be brought by the other, in which a right
acquired under a law of the United States, does not lie as
essentially at the basis of the right of action, as in the
suits brought by this Bank. [22 U.S. 876] It is no answer
to the argument, to say, that the law of the United States
is but ancillary to the constitution, as to the alien; for the
constitution could do nothing for him without the law:
and, whether the question be upon law or constitution,
still if the possibility of its arising be a sufficient
circumstance to bring it within the jurisdiction of the
United States Courts, that possibility exists with regard
to every suit affected by alien disabilities; to real actions
in time of peace — to all actions in time of war.
I cannot persuade myself, then, that, with these palpable
consequences in view, Congress ever could have
intended to vest in the Bank of the United States, the
right of suit to the extent here claimed. And,
notwithstanding the confidence with which this point
has been argued, an examination of the terms of the act,
and a consideration of them with a view to the context,
will be found to leave it by no means a clear case, that
such is the legal meaning of the act of incorporation. To
be sure, if the act had simply and substantively given the
right "to sue and be sued in the Circuit Courts of the
United States," there could have been no question made
upon the construction of those words. But such is not
the fact. The words are, not that the Bank shall be made
able and capable in law, to sue, &c., but that it shall, "by
a certain name," be made able and capable in law to do
the various acts therein enumerated. And these words,
under the force of which this suit is instituted, are found
in the ordinary incorporating clause of this act, a clause
[22 U.S. 877] which is well understood to be, and which
this Court, in the case of Deveaux, has recognised to be,
little more than the mere common place or formula of
such an act. The name of a corporation is the symbol of
its personal existence; a misnomer there is fatal to a suit,
(and still more fatal as to other transactions.) By the
incorporating clause, a name is given it, and, with that
name, a place among created beings; then usually
follows an enumeration of the ordinary acts in which it
may personate a natural man; and among those acts, the
right to sue and be sued, of which the Court, in
Deveaux's case, very correctly remarks, that it is "a
power which if not incident to a corporation, is
conferred by every incorporating act, and is not
understood to enlarge the jurisdiction of any particular
Court, but to give a capacity to the corporation to
appear as a corporation in any Court which would by
law have cognizance of the cause if brought by
individuals." With this qualification, the clause in
question will be construed, as an enumeration of
incidents, instead of a string of enactments; and such a
construction is strongly countenanced by the concluding
sentence of the section; for, after running through the
whole routine of powers, most of which are
unquestionably incidental, and needed no enactment to
vest them, it concludes thus: "and generally to do and
execute all and singular the acts, matters, and things,
which to them it shall and may appertain to do." And, in
going over the act, it will be found, that whenever it is
contemplated to vest a power not incidental, it is done
by a specific provision, made [22 U.S. 878] the subject of
a distinct clause; such is that power to transact the
business of the loan-office of the United States. And,
indeed, there is one section of the act, which strikingly
exhibits the light in which the law-makers considered
the incorporating clause. I mean the tenth; which,
notwithstanding that the same clause in the seventh
section, which is supposed to confer this sweeping
power to sue, confers also, in terms equally
comprehensive, the power to make laws for the
institution, and "to do and execute all and singular the
matters and things, which to them it shall and may
appertain to do," contains an enactment in the following
words: "that they shall have power to appoint such
officers, clerks, and servants, under them, for executing
the business of the corporation, and to allow them such
compensation for their services respectively, as shall be
reasonable; and shall be capable of exercising such other
powers and authorities for the well governing and
ordering the officers of the said corporation, as shall be
prescribed by the laws, regulations, and ordinances, of
the same;" a section which would have been altogether
unnecessary, had the seventh section been considered as
enacting, instead of enumerating and limiting. I consider
the incorporating clause, then, not as purporting the
absolute investment of any power, but as the usual and
formal declaration of the extent to which this artificial
should personate the natural person, in the transactions
incident to ordinary life, or to the peculiar objects of its
creation; and, therefore, not vesting the right to sue in
the Courts of the United [22 U.S. 879] States, but only
the right of personating the natural man in the Courts
of the United States, as it might, upon general
principles, in any other Courts of competent
jurisdiction. And this, I say, is consonant to the decision
in Deveaux's case, and sustained by abundant evidence
on the face of the act itself. Indeed, any other view of the
effect of the section, converts some of its provisions into
absolute nonsense.
It has been argued, and I have no objection to admit,
that the phraseology of this act has been varied from
that incorporating the former Bank, with a view to meet
the decision in Deveaux's case. But it is perfectly
obvious, that in the prosecution of that design, the
purport of Deveaux's case has been misapprehended.
The Court there decide, that the jurisdiction of the
United States depended, (1.) on the character of the
cause, (2.) on the character of the parties; that the
Judiciary Act confined the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts to the second class of cases, and the
incorporating act contained no words that purported to
carry it further. Whether the legislative power of the
United States could extend it as far as is here insisted on,
or what words would be adequate to that purpose, the
case neither called on the Court to decide, nor has it
proposed to decide. If any thing is to be inferred from
that decision on those points, it is unfavourable to the
sufficiency of the words inserted in the present act. For,
the argument of the Court intimates, that where the
Legislature propose to give jurisdiction to the Courts of
the United States, they do [22 U.S. 880] it by a separate
provision, as in the case of the action of debt for
exceeding the sum authorized to be loaned. And on the
words of the incorporating section, it makes this
remark, "that it is not understood to enlarge the
jurisdiction of any particular Court, but to give a
capacity to the corporation to appear as a corporation in
any Court, which would by law have cognizance of the
cause if brought by individuals. If jurisdiction is given by
this clause to the federal Courts, it is equally given to all
Courts having original jurisdiction, and for all sums,
however small they be." Now, the difference of
phraseology between the former act and the present, in
the clause in question, is this: the former has these
words, "may sue and be sued, &c. in Courts of record or
any other place whatsoever;" the present act has
substituted these words, "in all State Courts having
competent jurisdiction, and in any Circuit Court of the
United States." Now, the defect here could not have
been the want of adequate words, had the intent
appeared to have been, to enlarge the jurisdiction of any
particular Court. For, if the Circuit Courts were Courts
of record, the right of suit given was as full as any other
words could have made it. But, as the Court in its own
words assigns the ground of its decision, the clause
could not have been intended to enlarge the jurisdiction
of the State Courts, and therefore could not have been
intended to enlarge that of the federal Courts, much less
to have extended it to the smallest sum possible.
Therefore it concludes, that the clause is one of mere
enumeration, containing, [22 U.S. 881] as it expresses it,
"the powers which, if not incident to a corporation, are
conferred by every incorporating act, and are not
understood to enlarge," &c. If, then, this variation had in
view the object which is attributed to it, the words
intended to answer that object have been inserted so
unhappily as to neutralize its influence; but, I think it
much more consistent with the respect due to the
draftsman, who was known to have been an able lawyer,
to believe that, with such an object in view, he would
have pursued a much more plain and obvious course,
and given it a distinct and unequivocal section to itself,
or at least have worded it with more marked attention.
This opinion is further supported, by considering the
absurdities that a contrary opinion would lead to.
A literal translation of the words in question is
impossible. Nothing but inconsistencies present
themselves, if we attempt to apply it without a reference
to the laws and constitution of the United States,
forming together the judicial system of the Union. The
words are, "may sue and be sued, &c., in any State Court
having competent jurisdiction, and in any Circuit Court
of the United States." But why should one member of
the passage be entitled to an enacting effect, and not the
residue? Yet, who will impute to the Legislature or the
draftsman, and intention to vest a jurisdiction by these
words in a State Court? I do not speak of the positive
effect; since the failure of one enactment, because of a
want either of power to give or capacity to receive, will
not control [22 U.S. 882] the effect as to any other
enactment. I speak of the intent or understanding of the
law-maker; who must have used these words, as
applicable to the State Courts, in an enacting sense, if we
suppose him to have used them in that sense, as to the
Courts of the United States. Yet I should be very
unwilling to impute to him, or to the Legislature of the
country, ignorance of the fact, that such an enactment, if
it was one, could not give a right to sue in the State
Courts, if the right did not exist without it. Or, in fact,
that such enactment was altogether unnecessary, if the
legislative power, which must give effect to such an
enactment, was adequate to constitute effectually this
body corporate.
But why should this supposed enactment go still farther,
and confer the capacity to be sued, as well as to sue,
either in the Courts of the one jurisdiction or the other?
Did the lawgivers suppose that this corporation would
not be subject to suit, without an express enactment for
that purpose also? Or was it guilty of the more
unaccountable mistake, of supposing that it could confer
upon individuals, indiscriminately, this privilege of
bringing suits in the Courts of the United States against
the Bank? that too, for a cause of action originating, say,
in work and labour, or in a special action on the case, or
perhaps, ejectment to try title to land mortgaged by a
person not having the estate in him, or purchased of a
tortious holder for a banking house? I cannot acquiesce
in the supposition; and yet, if one is an enactment, and
[22 U.S. 883] takes effect as such, they are all enactments,
for they are uttered eodem flatu.
My own conclusion is, that none of them are
enactments, but all merely declaratory; or, at most, only
enacting, in the words of the Court, in the case of
Deveaux, that the Bank may, by its corporate name and
metaphysical existence, bring suit, or personate the
natural man, in the Courts specified, as though it were
in fact a natural person; that is, in those cases in which,
according to existing laws, suits may be brought in the
Courts specified respectively.
Indeed, a more unrestricted sense given to the words of
the act, could not be carried into execution; a literal
exercise of the right of suit, supposed to be granted,
would be impossible. Can the Bank of the United States
be sued (in the literal language of the act) "in any Circuit
Court of the United States?" in that of Ohio, or
Louisiana, for instance? Locality, in this respect, cannot
be denied to such an institution; or, at least, it is only
incidentally, by distress infinite, or attachment, for
instance, that such a suit could be maintained. Nor, on
the other hand, could the Bank sue literally in any
Circuit Court of the United States. It must, of necessity,
be confined to the Circuit Court of that district in which
the defendant resides, or is to be found. And thus, at last,
we circumscribe these general words, by reference to the
judicial system of the United States, as it existed at the
time. And why the same restriction should not have
been imposed as to amount, which is imposed as to all
other suitors, [22 U.S. 884] to wit, 500 dollars and
upwards, is to me inscrutable, except on the supposition
that this clause was not intended for any other purpose
than that which I have supposed. The United States
have suffered no other suitors to institute a suit in its
Courts for less than that sum, and it is hard to conceive
why the Bank should be permitted to institute a suit to
recover, if it will, a single cent. This consideration is
expressly drawn into notice by this Court, in the case of
Deveaux, and if it was entitled to weight then, in fixing
the construction of the incorporating section, I see no
reason why it should be unnoticed now.
I will dwell no longer on a point, which is in fact
secondary and subordinate; for if Congress can vest this
jurisdiction, and the people will it, the act may be
amended, and the jurisdiction vested. I next proceed to
consider, more distinctly, the constitutional question, on
the right to vest the jurisdiction to the extent here
contended for.
And here I must observe, that I altogether
misunderstood the counsel, who argued the cause for
the plaintiff in error, if any of them contended against
the jurisdiction, on the ground that the cause involved
questions depending on general principles. No one can
question, that the Court which has jurisdiction of the
principal question, must exercise jurisdiction over every
question. Neither did I understand them as denying, that
if Congress could confer on the Circuit Courts appellate,
they could confer original jurisdiction. The argument
went to deny the right to assume jurisdiction on a mere
hypothesis. It was one of [22 U.S. 885] description,
identity, definition; they contended, that until a question
involving the construction or administration of the laws
of the United States did actually arise, the casus federis
was not presented, on which the constitution authorized
the government to take to itself the jurisdiction of the
cause. That until such a question actually arose, until
such a case was actually presented, non constat, but the
cause depended upon general principles, exclusively
cognizable in the State Courts; that neither the letter nor
the spirit of the constitution sanctioned the assumption
of jurisdiction on the part of the United States at any
previous stage.
And this doctrine has my hearty concurrence in its
general application. A very simple case may be stated, to
illustrate its bearing on the question of jurisdiction
between the two governments. By virtue of treaties with
Great Britain, aliens holding lands were exempted from
alien disabilities, and made capable of holding, aliening,
and transmitting their estates, in common with natives.
But why should the claimants of such lands, to all
eternity, be vested with the privilege of bringing an
original suit in the Courts of the United States? It is true,
a question might be made, upon the effect of the treaty,
on the rights claimed by or through the alien; but until
that question does arise, nay, until a decision against the
right takes place, what end has the United States to
subserve in claiming jurisdiction of the cause? Such is
the present law of the United States, as to all but this
one distinguished party; and that law was [22 U.S. 886]
passed when the doctrines, the views, and ends of the
constitution, were, at least, as well understood as they
are at present. I attach much importance to the 25th
section of the judiciary act, not only as a measure of
policy, but as a contemporaneous exposition of the
constitution on this subject; as an exposition of the
words of the constitution, deduced from a knowledge of
its views and policy. The object was, to secure a uniform
construction and a steady execution of the laws of the
Union. Except as far as this purpose might require, the
general government had no interest in stripping the
State Courts of their jurisdiction; their policy would
rather lead to avoid incumbering themselves with it.
Why then should it be vested with jurisdiction in a
thousand causes, on a mere possibility of a question
arising, which question, at last, does not occur in one of
them? Indeed, I cannot perceive how such a reach of
jurisdiction can be asserted, without changing the
reading of the constitution on this subject altogether.
The judicial power extends only to "cases arising," that
is, actual, not potential cases. The framers of the
constitution knew better, than to trust such a quo minus
fiction in the hands of any government.
I have never understood any one to question the right of
Congress to vest original jurisdiction in its inferior
Courts, in cases coming properly within the description
of "cases arising under the laws of the United States;"
but surely it must first be ascertained, in some proper
mode, that the cases are such as the constitution
describes. By possibility, a constitutional question may
be raised in [22 U.S. 887] any conceivable suit that may
be instituted; but that would be a very insufficient
ground for assuming universal jurisdiction; and yet, that
a question has been made, as that, for instance, on the
Bank charter, and may again be made, seems still worse,
as a ground for extending jurisdiction. For, the folly of
raising it again in every suit instituted by the Bank, is
too great, to suppose it possible. Yet this supposition,
and this alone, would seem to justify vesting the Bank
with an unlimited right to sue in the federal Courts.
Indeed, I cannot perceive how, with ordinary
correctness, a question can be said to be involved in a
cause, which only may possibly be made, but which, in
fact, is the very last question that there is any probability
will be made; or rather, how that can any longer be
denominated a question, which has been put out of
existence by a solemn decision. The constitution
presumes, that the decisions of the supreme tribunal will
be acquiesced in; and after disposing of the few
questions which the constitution refers to it, all the
minor questions belong properly to the State
jurisdictions, and never were intended to be taken away
in mass.
Efforts have been made to fix the precise sense of the
constitution, when it vests jurisdiction in the general
government, in "cases arising under the laws of the
United States." To me, the question appears susceptible
of a very simple solution; that all depends upon the
identity of the case supposed; according to which idea, a
case may be such in its very existence, or it may become
such in its progress. An action may "live, move, and
have [22 U.S. 888] its being," in a law of the United
States; such is that given for the violation of a patentright,
and four or five different actions given by this act
of incorporation; particularly that against the President
and Directors for over-issuing; in all of which cases the
plaintiff must count upon the law itself as the ground of
his action. And of the other description, would have
been an action of trespass, in this case, had remedy been
sought for an actual levy of the tax imposed. Such was
the case of the former Bank against Deveaux, and many
others that have occurred in this Court, in which the
suit, in its form, was such as occur in ordinary cases, but
in which the pleadings or evidence raised the question
on the law or constitution of the United States. In this
class of cases, the occurrence of a question makes the
case, and transfers it, as provided for under the twentyfifth
section of the Judiciary Act, to the jurisdiction of
the United States. And this appears to me to present the
only sound and practical construction of the
constitution on this subject; for no other cases does it
regard as necessary to place under the control of the
general government. It is only when the case exhibits
one or the other of these characteristics, that it is acted
upon by the constitution. Where no question is raised,
there can be no contrariety of construction; and what
else had the constitution to guard against? As to cases of
the first description, ex necessitate rei, the Courts of the
United States must be susceptible of original
jurisdiction; and as to all other cases, I should hold them,
also, susceptible of original jurisdiction, if it were
practicable, [22 U.S. 889] in the nature of things, to make
out the definition of the case, so as to bring it under the
constitution judicially, upon an original suit. But until
the plaintiff can control the defendant in his pleadings, I
see no practical mode of determining when the case
does occur, otherwise than by permitting the cause to
advance until the case for which the constitution
provides shall actually arise. If it never occurs, there can
be nothing to complain of; and such are the provisions
of the twenty-fifth section. The cause might be
transferred to the Circuit Court before an adjudication
takes place; but I can perceive no earlier stage at which it
can possibly be predicated of such a case, that it is one
within the constitution; nor any possible necessity for
transferring it then, or until the Court has acted upon it
to the prejudice of the claims of the United States. It is
not, therefore, because Congress may not vest an
original jurisdiction, where they can constitutionally
vest in the Circuit Courts appellate jurisdiction, that I
object to this general grant of the right to sue; but,
because that the peculiar nature of this jurisdiction is
such, as to render it impossible to exercise it in a strictly
original form, and because the principle of a possible
occurrence of a question as a ground of jurisdiction, is
transcending the bounds of the constitution, and placing
it on a ground which will admit of an enormous
accession, if not an unlimited assumption, of
jurisdiction.
But, dismissing the question of possibility, which, I must
think, would embrace every other case as well as those
to which this Bank is a party, in what [22 U.S. 890] sense
can it be predicated of this case, that it is one arising
under a law of the United States? It cannot be denied,
that jurisdiction of this suit in equity could not be
entertained, unless the Court could have had jurisdiction
of the action of trespass, which this injunction was
intended to anticipate. And, in fact, there is no question,
that the Bank here maintains, that the right to sue
extends to common trespass, as well as to contracts, or
any other cause of action. But suppose trespass in the
common form instituted; the declaration is general, and
the defendant pleads not guilty, and goes to trial. Where
is the feature in such a cause that can give the Court
jurisdiction? What question arises under a law of the
United States? or what question that must not be
decided exclusively upon the lex loci, upon State laws?
Take also the case of a contract, and in what sense can it
be correctly predicated of that, that in common with
every other act of the Bank, it arises out of the law that
incorporates it? May it not with equal propriety be
asserted, that all the crimes and all the controversies of
mankind, arise out of the fiat that called their progenitor
into existence? It is not because man was created, that he
commits a trespass, or incurs a debt; but because, being
indued with certain faculties and propensities, he is led
by an appropriate motive to the one action or the other.
Sound philosophy attributes effects to their proximate
causes. It is but pursuing the grade of creation from one
step to another, to deduce the acts of this Bank from
State law, or even divine law, with as much correctness
as from the law of [22 U.S. 891] its immediate creation.
Its contracts arise under its own acts, and not under a
law of the United States; so far from it, indeed, that their
effect, their construction, their limitation, their
concoction, are all the creatures of the respective State
laws in which they originate. There is a satisfactory
illustration of the distinction between contracts which
draw their existence from statutes, and those which
originate in the acts of man, afforded by this act of
incorporation itself. It will be unnecessary to look
beyond it. The action of debt before alluded to, given by
the ninth clause of the seventh section, against the
directors, to any one who will sue, is one of those
factitious or statute contracts which exist in, and expire
with, the statute that creates it. Not so with the ordinary
contracts of the Bank; upon the expiration of the
charter, they would be placed in the state of the credits
of an intestate before administration; there is no one to
sue for them; but the moral obligation would remain,
and a Court of equity would enforce it against their
debtors, at the suit of the individual stockholders. Nor
would this be on the principle of contracts executed
under power of attorney; for, the law applicable to
principals would govern every question in such causes.
All the acts of the corporation are executed in their own
right, and not in the right of another. A personal
existence, with all its incidents, is given to them, and it
is in right of that existence that they are capable of
acting, and do act.
Nor, indeed, in another point of view, is it strictly
predicable of this Bank, that its acts arise [22 U.S. 892]
out of, because its existence is drawn from, a law of the
United States. It is because it is incorporated, not
because incorporated by a law of the United States, that
it is made capable of exercising certain powers
incidentally, and of being vested with others expressly.
The same effects would follow, if incorporated by any
other competent legislative power. The law of the
United States creates the Bank, and the common law, or
State law more properly, takes it up and makes it what it
is. Who can deny, that in many points the incidents to
such an institution may vary in different States,
although its existence be derived from the general
government? It is the case with the natural alien, when
adopted into the national family. His rights, duties,
powers, &c., receive always a shade from the lex loci of
the State in which he fixes his domicil.
If this right to sue could be vested at all in the Bank, it is
obvious that it must have been for one or more of three
causes: 1. That a law of the United States incorporated
it; 2. That a law of the United States vested in it the
power to sue; or, 3. That the power to defend itself from
trespasses as applicable to this case strictly, or to
contract debts as applicable to the Georgia case, was
conferred on it by a law of the United States expressly.
The first I have considered. On the second, no one
would have the hardihood to contend, that such a grant
has any efficacy, unless the suits come within the
description of cases arising under a law of the United
States, independently of the [22 U.S. 893] grant of the
right to sue; and it only remains to add a few more
remarks on the third ground.
Of the power to repel trespasses, and to enter into
contracts, as mere incidents to its creation, I trust I have
shown, that neither comes within the description of a
case arising under a law of the United States. But where
will we find, in the law in question, any express grant of
power relative to either? The contracts on which the
Georgia case is founded, are declared on as common
promissory notes, payable to bearer. Now, as mere
incidents, I have no doubt of an action being sustainable
in a State Court in both cases. But if an express grant is
relied on, as bringing this, or the case of a contract,
within the description of "a case arising under a law of
the United States," then I look through the law in vain
for any express grant, either to make the contract, or
repel the trespass. It is true, the sweeping terms with
which the incorporating section concludes, import, that
"by that name it shall and may be lawful for the Bank to
do and execute all and singular the acts, matters, and
things, which to them it shall and may appertain to do."
But this contains no grant of either, since the inquiry, at
last, must be into the incidents of such an institution,
and, as incidents, they needed not these words to sustain
them; nor could those words give any more force to the
right. So that, at last, we are referred to the mere fact of
its corporate existence, for the basis of either of the
actions, or either of the powers here insisted on, as
bringing this cause within the constitutional definition.
Having a legal [22 U.S. 894] existence as an incorporated
banking institution, it has a right to security in its
possessions, and to the performance of its contracts; but
that right will be precisely the same, if incorporated by a
State law, or even, as was held in the case of Terrett v.
Taylor, if having a common law corporate existence.
The common law, or the State law, is referred to by the
law of the United States, as the source of these incidents,
when it speaks of the acts which are appurtenant to it;
and I know of no other law that can define them, or
confer them as incidents. Suppose a naturalization act
passed, which, after specifying the terms and conditions
upon which an alien shall become a citizen, proceeds to
declare, "that, as a citizen, he shall lawfully do and
execute all and singular the acts, matters, and things,
which to `a citizen,' or `to him as a citizen,' it shall and
may appertain to do," would not these words be a mere
nullity? His new existence, and the relations with the
society into which he is introduced, that grow out of
that connexion, give him the right to defend his
property or his existence, (as in this case,) and to enter
into and enforce those contracts which, as an alien, he
would have been precluded from. He was no more a
citizen, without an act of Congress, than this was a
Bank. Finally, after the most attentive consideration of
this cause, I cannot help thinking, that this idea of taking
jurisdiction upon an hypothesis, or even of assuming
original, unlimited jurisdiction, of all questions arising
under a law of the United States, involves some striking
inconsistencies. A Court may take cognizance of a
question [22 U.S. 895] in a cause, and enter a judgment
upon it, and yet not have jurisdiction of the cause itself.
Such are all questions of jurisdiction, of which every
Court, however limited its jurisdiction, must have
cognizance in every cause brought before it. So, also, I
see not why, upon the same principle, a law expressly
violating the constitution, may not be made the
groundwork of a transfer of jurisdiction. Cases may
arise, and would arise, under such a law; and if the
simple existence, or possibility of such a case, is a
sufficient ground of jurisdiction, and that ground
sufficient to transfer the whole case to the federal
judiciary, the least that can be said of it is, that it was not
a case within the mischief intended to be obviated by the
constitution. I shall say no more on this subject, but
proceed to one which also acts forcibly on my judgment
in forming my opinion in this cause.
I will not undertake to define the limits within which
the discretion of the Legislature of the Union may
range, in the adoption of measures for executing their
constitutional powers. It is very possible, that in the
choice of means as "proper and necessary" to carry their
powers into effect, they may have assumed a latitude not
foreseen at the adoption of the constitution. For
example, in order to collect a stamp duty, they have
exercised a power over the general law of contracts; in
order to secure debts due the United States, they have
controlled the State laws of estates of deceased persons
and of insolvents' estates; in the distributions and the
powers of individuals themselves, when insolvent, in
the assignment of their [22 U.S. 896] own estates; in the
exercise of various powers, they have taken jurisdiction
over crimes which the State laws took cognizance of;
and all this, being within the range of their discretion, is
aloof from judicial control, while unaffectedly exercised
for the purposes of the constitution. Nor, indeed, is
there much to be alarmed at in it, while the same people
who govern the States, can, where they will, control the
Legislature of the United States.
Yet, certainly, there is one limit to this chain of implied
powers, which must lie beyond the reach of legislative
discretion. No one branch of the general government
can new model the constitutional structure of the other.
Much stress was laid, in the argument, upon the
necessity of giving co-ordinate extent to the several
departments of a government; but it was altogether
unnecessary to bring this consideration into the present
case. As a ground of policy, this is not its proper place;
and as a ground of construction, it must be needless,
when applied to a constitution in which the judicial
power so very far transcends both the others, in its
acknowledged limits.
The principle is, that every government should possess
the means of protecting itself; that is, of construing and
enforcing its own laws. But this is not the half of the
extent of the judicial power of the Union. Its most
interesting province, is to enforce the equal
administration of laws, and systems of laws, over which
the legislative power can exercise no control. And thus,
the judicial power is distributed into the two [22 U.S.
897] classes: 1. That which is defined by the
circumstances of the case; and, 2. That which depends
upon the circumstances of the person. On the first, I
have endeavoured to show, that the end is adequately
effected by the provisions of the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act, and, practically, can be exercised in no
other way. But with regard to the second class, the
argument turns against the United States; and every
reason that may be urged in favour of eking out the
jurisdiction in the first class of cases, reacts forcibly to
confine the jurisdiction strictly within its constitutional
limits, as to the second class. When the alien, or the
citizen of another State, or the grants of another State,
are implicated, the State Courts open their tribunals to
the judiciary of the United States, and recognize their
power as co-ordinate. Their citizens, their territory,
their laws, all are subjected to a power quite foreign to
the States, and judicial power is literally poured out
upon the Courts of the Union, without stint.
How interesting, then, is it to the States, that the
number of those persons who claim the privilege of
coming into the Courts of the United States should be
strictly limited! Cases, since they arise out of laws, &c. of
the United States, must be very limited in number; but
persons may bring into the Courts of the United States
any question and every question, and, if this law be
correctly construed, for any, the very smallest possible
amount.
But if the plain dictates of our senses be relied on, what
state of facts have we exhibited here? [22 U.S. 898]
Making a person, makes a case; and thus, a government
which cannot exercise jurisdiction unless an alien or
citizen of another State be a party, makes a party which
is neither alien nor citizen, and then claims jurisdiction
because it has made a case. If this be true, why not make
every citizen a corporation sole, and thus bring them all
into the Courts of the United States quo minus? Nay, it
is still worse, for there is not only an evasion of the
constitution implied in this doctrine, but a positive
power to violate it. Suppose every individual of this
corporation were citizens of Ohio, or, as applicable to
the other case, were citizens of Georgia, the United
States could not give any one of them, individually, the
right to sue a citizen of the same State in the Courts of
the United States; then, on what principle could that
right be communicated to them in a body? But the
question is equally unanswerable, if any single member
of the corporation is of the same State with the
defendant, as has been repeatedly adjudged.
One of the counsel who argued this cause in behalf of
the Bank, has denominated it a bundle of faculties. This
is very true; but those faculties are substituted for the
organization of a natural person; and it is perfectly
certain, that when it comes into this Court, it must be
treated as a person. It is altogether inadmissible, to
refine away the principles of jurisprudence, so as to
consider it in any other light than that of a person. As
such, it sues out a writ, declares, pleads, takes judgment,
and levies an execution. If it is not a [22 U.S. 899]
person, it has no standing in this Court; it must,
therefore, abandon this suit, or be subjected to personal
disabilities. Gentlemen have a right to take what ground
here they please, to sustain this action; but it is perfectly
clear to me, that the act of Congress was intended to
vest this right as a personal right, or not at all. Let any
one look through this act, and notice the unrestricted
latitude that has been assumed in vesting the right to sue
both by and against this Bank, and he will see, that
either there is no general right to sue given in the
seventh section, now relied on, or that it is given under
the general power granted to pass all laws necessary to
carry the powers of the general government into
execution. The proviso to the 17th section is a
remarkable proof of this. It puts the limits of judicial
power altogether out of view. If Congress, in legislating
on this subject, did intend such a grant as is here
contended for, it must be presumed that they did not
advert to the consideration, that granting to an
individual a right to sue, was enlarging the jurisdiction
of the Court. It never can be supposed, that they meant
to assume the power of adding to the number of persons
who might constitutionally become suitors in the
Courts of the United States. But every difficulty
vanishes, when we limit the meaning of the language of
the act, by a reference to the context. In fact, a general
power to bring actions in the Courts of the United
States, is so peculiarly and explicitly personal on the face
of the constitution, that it is hard to perceive how
Congress could have for a moment lost sight of the
restrictions [22 U.S. 900] imposed, in this respect, upon
the judicial power.
Nor had the Bank any idea that this power was vested in
it, upon the ground that every possible case in which it
might be involved in litigation, came within the
constitutional definition of cases arising under laws, &c.
of the United States. In its averments, those on which it
claims jurisdiction, it simply takes two grounds: 1. That
it was incorporated by an act of Congress; 2. That the
right to sue was given it by an act of Congress. But there
is no averment, that the cause of action was a case
arising under a law of the United States. It well knew,
that it was a case emphatically arising out of an act of the
State of Ohio, operating upon the domicil of the Bank,
which, although purchased in right of an existence
metaphysically given it by Congress, was acquired and
held according to the laws of Ohio, acting upon its own
territory. Technically, these averments cover only two
grounds; they affirm, 1. That the Bank, being
incorporated by Congress, had, therefore, a right to sue;
2. That being incorporated, and having the right to sue
conferred upon it by an act of Congress, therefore, it
could maintain this action. But yet neither, nor both of
these, could give the right, unless in one of the cases
defined in the constitution, which case is not the subject
of an averment. I would not willingly place the case on
the ground of mere technicality; and, therefore, only
make the observation to show, that the ground assumed
in argument, is an after-thought. I believe that, until this
argument, the [22 U.S. 901] ground now made was never
thought of; and I am at a loss to conceive how it is
possible to maintain the position, that all possible cases
in which this Bank shall sue or be sued, come within the
description now contended for. Take, for instance, a
trespass or a fraud committed by the Bank, and suit
brought by the injured party, in what sense could they
be said to be cases arising under a law of the United
States? Or, take the case of ejectment, suppose to
recover part of the premises of the banking house in
Philadelphia, and not a question raised in the suit, but
what arises under the territorial laws of the country, and
what circumstances characterize that as a case of the
proper description to give this Court jurisdiction? If this
cause of action arises under a statute, why is not the
statute referred to, and the provision particularly relied
on, if there is any other than what the averments
specify?
Various instances have been cited and relied on, in
which this right of suit in the Courts of the United
States has been given to particular officers of the United
States. But on these I would remark, that it is not logical
to cite as proofs, the exercise of this right, in instances
which may themselves be the subject of constitutional
questions. It cannot be intended to surprise this Court
into the recognition of the constitutionality of the laws
so cited. But there is a stronger objection; no such
instance is in point, until it be shown that Congress has
authorized such officers to bring their private contracts
and private controversies into the Courts of the United
States. In all the [22 U.S. 902] cases cited, the individual
is acting distinctly as the organ of government; but let
them take the character of a mere contractor, a factor, a
broker, a common carrier, and then let laws authorizing
them to sue in the Courts of the United States be passed,
and I will acknowledge the cases to be in point; though I
will still dispute the principle, that a repetition of error
can convert an act into law or truth. The distinction is a
clear one between all these cases and the Bank. The
latter is a mere agent or attorney, in some instances; in
others, and especially in the cases now before the Court,
it is a private person, acting on its own account, not
clothed with an official character at all. But the acts of
public officers are the acts of government; and
emphatically so, in suits by the Postmaster-General; the
money to be recovered being the property of the United
States, it may be considered that they are parties to the
suit, just as those States are to the suits by or against
their Attorney-General, where he is by law authorized
to bring and defend suits in his own name officially.
When the United States are parties, the grant of
jurisdiction is general. But, there is express law also for
every contract that the Postmaster enters into, or it will
be in vain for him to bring his suit in his own name or
otherwise. It would be in vain for him to rely simply on
his being made Postmaster under an act of Congress; in
which point alone, there would seem to exist any
analogy between his case and that of the Bank.
As to the instance of the action given under the patent
law, it has been before remarked, that so [22 U.S. 903]
entirely is its existence blended with an act of Congress,
that to prosecute it, it is indispensable that the act
should be set forth as the ground of action. I rather
think it an unfortunate quotation, since it presents a
happy illustration of what we are to understand by those
cases arising under a law of Congress, which in their
nature admit of an exercise of original jurisdiction. The
plaintiff must recover, must count upon the act of
Congress; the constitutional characteristic appears on
the record before the defendant is called to answer; and
the repeal of the statute before judgment, puts an end to
his right altogether. Various such cases may be cited. But
how the act of Congress is to be introduced into an
action of trespass, ejectment, or slander, before the
defendant is called to plead, I cannot imagine.
Upon the whole, I feel compelled to dissent from the
Court, on the point of jurisdiction; and this renders it
unnecessary for me to express my sentiments on the
residue of the points in the cause.
Decree affirmed, except as to interest on the amount of
the specie in the hands of the defendant, Sullivan.