No doubt it is desirable that the question raised in this
case should be set at rest, but that can be done by the
Courts of the United States only within the limits of the
jurisdiction conferred upon them by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States. As this suit was
brought by a citizen of Missouri against a Missouri
corporation the [255 U.S. 214] single ground upon which
the jurisdiction of the District Court can be maintained
is that the suit "arises under the Constitution or laws of
the United States" within the meaning of ยง 24 of the
Judicial Code. I am of opinion that this case does not
arise in that way and therefore that the bill should have
been dismissed.
It is evident that the cause of action arises not under any
law of the United States but wholly under Missouri law.
The defendant is a Missouri corporation and the right
claimed is that of a stockholder to prevent the directors
from doing an act, that is, making an investment, alleged
to be contrary to their duty. But the scope of their duty
depends upon the charter of their corporation and other
laws of Missouri. If those laws had authorized the
investment in terms the plaintiff would have had no
case, and this seems to me to make manifest what I am
unable to deem even debatable, that, as I have said, the
cause of action arises wholly under Missouri law. If the
Missouri law authorizes or forbids the investment
according to the determination of this Court upon a
point under the Constitution or acts of Congress, still
that point is material only because the Missouri law saw
fit to make it so. The whole foundation of the duty is
Missouri law, which at its sole will incorporated the
other law as it might incorporate a document. The other
law or document depends for its relevance and effect not
on its own force but upon the law that took it up, so I
repeat once more the cause of action arises wholly from
the law of the State.
But it seems to me that a suit cannot be said to arise
under any other law than that which creates the cause of
action. It may be enough that the law relied upon creates
a part of the cause of action although not the whole, as
held in Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat.
738, 819-823, which perhaps is all that is meant by the
less guarded expressions in Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 264, 379. I am content to assume this to be so,
although the Osborn Case [255 U.S. 215] has been
criticized and regretted. But the law must create at least
a part of the cause of action by its own force, for it is the
suit, not a question in the suit, that must arise under the
law of the United States. The mere adoption by a state
law of a United States law as a criterion or test, when
the law of the United States has no force proprio vigore,
does not cause a case under the state law to be also a case
under the law of the United States, and so it has been
decided by this Court again and again. Miller v. Swann,
150 U.S. 132, 136, 137; Louisville & Nashville R.R. Co v.
Western Union Telegraph Co., 237 U.S. 300, 303. See
also Shoshone Mining Co. v. Rutter, 177 U.S. 505, 508,
509.
I find nothing contrary to my views in Brushaber v.
Union Pacific R.R. Co., 240 U.S. 1, 10. It seems to me
plain that the objection that I am considering was not
before the mind of the Court or the subject of any of its
observations, if open. I am confirmed in my view of that
case by the fact that in the next volume of reports is a
decision, reached not without discussion and with but a
single dissent, that "a suit arises under the law that
creates the cause of action." That was the ratio decidendi
of American Well Works Co. v. Layne & Bowler Co.,
241 U.S. 257, 260. I know of no decisions to the
contrary and see no reason for overruling it now. In view of our opinion that this Court has no
jurisdiction we express no judgment on the merits.