A writ of certiorari was granted herein to review the
affirmance by the Circuit Court of Appeals of a
judgment for respondent rendered by the District Court
for Southern Iowa. The action was upon the record of a
judgment rendered in favor of the petitioner against the
respondent in the United States District Court for
Western Missouri.
The defense was lack of jurisdiction of the person of the
respondent in the court which entered the judgment.
After hearing, in which a jury was waived, this defense
was sustained and the action dismissed. The first suit
was begun in a Missouri state court and removed to the
District Court. Respondent appeared specially and
moved to quash and dismiss for want of service. The
court quashed the service, but refused to dismiss. An
alias summons was issued and returned served,
whereupon it again appeared specially, moved to set
aside the service, quash the return, and dismiss the case
for want of jurisdiction of its person. After a hearing on
affidavits and [283 U.S. 524] briefs, the motion was
overruled, with leave to plead within thirty days. No
plea having been filed within that period, the cause
proceeded and judgment was entered for the amount
claimed. Respondent did not move to set aside the
judgment nor sue out a writ of error.
The ground of the motion made in the first suit is the
same as that relied on as a defense to this one, namely,
that the respondent is an Iowa corporation, that it never
was present in Missouri, and that the person served
with process in the latter State was not such an agent
that service on him constituted a service on the
corporation. The petitioner objected to proof of these
matters, asserting that the defense constituted a
collateral attack and a retrial of an issue settled in the
first suit. The overruling of this objection and the
resulting judgment for respondent are assigned as error.
The petitioner suggests that Article IV, Section 1 of the
Constitution forbade the retrial of the question
determined on respondent's motion in the Missouri
District Court; but the full faith and credit required by
that clause is not involved, since neither of the courts
concerned was a state court. (Compare Cooper v.
Newell, 173 U.S. 555, 567; Supreme Lodge Knights of
Pythias v. Meyer, 265 U.S. 30, 33). The respondent, on
the other hand, insists that to deprive it of the defense
which it made in the court below, of lack of jurisdiction
over it by the Missouri District Court, would be to deny
the due process guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment; but there is involved in that doctrine no
right to litigate the same question twice (Chicago Life
Ins. Co. v. Cherry, 244 U.S. 25; compare York v. Texas,
137 U.S. 15).
The substantial matter for determination is whether the
judgment amounts to res judicata on the question of the
jurisdiction of the court which rendered it over the
person of the respondent. It is of no moment that the
[283 U.S. 525] appearance was a special one expressly
saving any submission to such jurisdiction. That fact
would be important upon appeal from the judgment,
and would save the question of the propriety of the
court's decision on the matter even though after the
motion had been overruled the respondent had
proceeded, subject to a reserved objection and
exception, to a trial on the merits. Harkness v. Hyde, 98
U.S. 476; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U.S. 518;
Toledo Rys. & Lt. Co. v. Hill, 244 U.S. 49; Hitchman
Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U.S. 229; Morris & Co.
v. Skandinavia Ins. Co., 279 U.S. 405. The special
appearance gives point to the fact that the respondent
entered the Missouri court for the very purpose of
litigating the question of jurisdiction over its person. It
had the election not to appear at all. If, in the absence of
appearance, the court had proceeded to judgment and
the present suit had been brought thereon, respondent
could have raised and tried out the issue in the present
action, because it would never have had its day in court
with respect to jurisdiction. Thompson v. Whitman, 18
Wall. 457; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714; Hart v.
Sansom, 110 U.S. 151; Wetmore v. Karrick, 205 U.S.
141; Bigelow v. Old Dominion Copper Co., 225 U.S.
111; McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U.S. 90. It had also the
right to appeal from the decision of the Missouri
District Court, as is shown by Harkness v. Hyde, supra,
and the other authorities cited. It elected to follow
neither of those courses, but, after having been defeated
upon full hearing in its contention as to jurisdiction, it
took no further steps, and the judgment in question
resulted.
Public policy dictates that there be an end of litigation;
that those who have contested on issue shall be bound
by the result of the contest, and that matters once tried
shall be considered forever settled as between the
parties. We see no reason why this doctrine should not
apply in every [283 U.S. 526] case where one voluntarily
appears, presents his case and is fully heard, and why he
should not, in the absence of fraud, be thereafter
concluded by the judgment of the tribunal to which he
has submitted his cause.
While this Court has never been called upon to
determine the specific question here raised, several
federal courts have held the judgment res judicata in like
circumstances. Phelps v. Mutual Life Assn., 112 Fed.
453; affirmed on other grounds, 190 U.S. 147; Moch v.
Insurance Co., 10 Fed. 696; Thomas v. Virden, 160 Fed.
418; Chinn v. Foster-Milburn Co., 195 Fed. 158. And
we are in accord with this view.
Respondent relies upon National Exchange Bank v.
Wiley, 195 U.S. 257, but it is not in point; for there it
was shown, not that the defendant in the judgment of
the Ohio state court on which suit was brought had
appeared and contested jurisdiction, but that an attorney
without right or authority had assumed to appear and
confess judgment on its behalf.
Bank of Jasper v. First National Bank, 258 U.S. 112,
cited by respondent, involved a wholly different
question from that here presented. There a suit in equity
was brought in a state court against both resident and
nonresident defendants. Pursuant to state law
constructive service upon the nonresidents was made by
publication. One of them, a Georgia bank, appeared
specially and moved to quash the service. Its motion was
overruled, and on appeal the supreme court of the State
affirmed, holding that the purpose of the statute
authorizing constructive service by publication was
merely to notify nonresidents of the pending suit so that
they might, if they cared to do so, come into the case. It
held that there was no right to quash the notice, but that
the nonresident had its full right to object should the
court thereafter commit an error against it. This Court
held that the special appearance for the purpose of
quashing the notice [283 U.S. 527] of service did not
amount to a general appearance. Subsequent
proceedings in the state court, therefore, were taken
without the presence of the bank and were not binding
upon it unless the res to be affected was in Florida and
subject to the control of the state court. That point was
not litigated by the bank — it was not present. This
Court held there was not such res subject to the power
of the state court, and therefore its judgment was not
binding upon those who were not actual parties.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.