I concur in that part of the Court's judgment that directs
dismissal of the cause as to Skelly and Stanolind. I have
real doubts as to whether there is a federal question here
at all, even though interpretation of the contract
between private parties requires an interpretation of a
federal statute and the action of a federal regulatory [339
U.S. 680] body. But the Court finds it unnecessary to
reach that question because it holds that the federal
question, if any, is not a part of the plaintiff's claim and
that jurisdiction does not, therefore, attach. While this
result is not a necessary one, I am not prepared to
dissent from it at this time.
But I am forced to dissent from the vacation and remand
of the cause in respect to Magnolia. I think that, as to
this petitioner, the judgment of the Court of Appeals
should be affirmed. The Court decides that the Court of
Appeals erred in holding that the Federal Power
Commission had issued a certificate of public
convenience and necessity to Michigan-Wisconsin Pipe
Line Company on November 30, 1946, despite the fact
that on that date the Commission adopted an order
stating that "A certificate of public convenience and
necessity be and it is hereby issued to Applicant, upon
the terms and conditions of this order, . . . ." This
disregard for what the District Court found to be the
Commission's express intention is based upon two
alternative grounds. First, it is suggested that while the
order issuing the certificate was "adopted" on November
30, it was not "issued" until December 2. Second, it is
said that Part C of the November 30 order, which
concerned the date of issuance of the order for purposes
of applications for rehearing, precludes a finding that a
certificate was issued on November 30. Neither of these
grounds, in my judgment, supports the Court's
conclusion.
As to the first, which was not argued here nor in the
Court of Appeals, it is true that the Commission's rules
provide that an order is not to be deemed "issued" until
the full text is mimeographed and mailed to the parties
to the proceeding. This usually follows within two or
three days after the order is "adopted." The only purpose
of the postponement of the date of issuance of the [339
U.S. 681] order, so far as we are informed, is to postpone
the running of the 30-day period for applications for
rehearing until the full text is available to the parties
who have standing to ask for rehearing.
But the Commission uniformly refers to the date of
adoption of the order as the date upon which the
certificate of public convenience and necessity was
"issued."1 It did so in this case, when, on March 12,
1947, it issued a supplemental order referring to its
"order of November 30, 1946, issuing a certificate of
public convenience and necessity." Furthermore, the
District Court found as a fact that
"On November 30, a Saturday, the Commission in executive session
made an order granting, with conditions, a certificate of public
convenience and necessity to the Michigan-Wisconsin Pipe Line
Company. During this session as the members of the Commission
came to agreement as to the wording of the order, Mr. Fuquay, the
secretary of the Commission, prepared the order in full and exact
text. The secretary was directed by the Commission to release the
order immediately."
Following adjournment on that day, the secretary sent a
telegram to the parties to the proceeding, informing
them that the "Commission today . . . adopted Opinion
and Order, in Docket No. G-669, issuing certificate,
with conditions, to Michigan Wisconsin Pipe Line
Company." On the same day, releases to the press were
made announcing the action taken by the Commission.
Skelly, Stanolind and Magnolia were not parties to this
proceeding. It may very well be that the date of issuance
of the order granting the certificate is December [339
U.S. 682] 2 or some later date—for purposes of rehearing
upon application of the parties. But I think there is no
question that the certificate, as distinguished from the
order, was issued on November 30. That is the
Commission's view, as indicated by its supplemental
order. The fact that it takes a few days to get its orders
mimeographed and the Commission has adopted a rule
that, in fairness to the parties, the time for rehearing
shall not begin to run until such orders, in full text, are
available, does not mean that the issuance of the
certificate is also held in abeyance until that time.
The second argument requires but short answer. Part C
provides that
"For the purpose of computing the time within which applications
for rehearing may be filed, the date of issuance of this order shall be
deemed to be the date of issuance of the opinions, or of the
supplemental order referred to herein, whichever may be the later."
The paragraph means just what it says. I do not
understand the Court to hold that the Commission
cannot thus postpone the running of the time for
rehearing. Computation of that time, as I have indicated,
has no necessary relation to the date of issuance of the
certificate.
I think that the Commission intended to and did issue a
certificate of public convenience and necessity to
Michigan-Wisconsin Pipe Line Company on November
30, 1946, whatever the date of its order, for purposes of
computation of time for rehearing. The crucial clause of
the contract refers to "the issuance of such certificate [of
public convenience and necessity]." By their inclusion of
a provision dependent upon the action of a federal
agency, it is obvious that the parties intended that the
contract should be construed with reference to the
effective [339 U.S. 683] date of agency action under the
statutes and the practices of the Commission. The
District Court so concluded.2 I can see no reason,
therefore, to remand the cause for further proceedings.
In my view, effective agency action was taken on
November 30, 1946. As to Magnolia, I would affirm the
judgment of the Court of Appeals.