As this case reaches us it raises questions of the highest
importance to the maintenance of our federal system of
government. It necessarily involves a claim by the
Governor and Legislature of a State that there is no duty
on state officials to obey federal court orders resting on
this Court's considered interpretation of the United
States Constitution. Specifically it involves actions by
the Governor and Legislature of Arkansas upon the
premise that they are not bound by our holding in
Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483. That
holding was that the Fourteenth Amendment forbids
States to use their governmental powers to bar children
on racial grounds from attending schools where there is
state participation through any arrangement,
management, funds or property. We are urged to
uphold a suspension of the Little Rock School Board's
plan to do away with segregated public schools in Little
Rock until state laws and efforts to upset and nullify our
holding in Brown v. Board of Education have been
further challenged and tested in the courts. We reject
these contentions.
The case was argued before us on September 11, 1958.
On the following day we unanimously affirmed the
judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit,
257 F.2d 33, which had reversed a judgment of the
District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas, 163
F.Supp. 13. The District Court had granted the
application of the petitioners, the Little Rock School
Board and School Superintendent, to suspend for two
and one-half years the operation of the School Board's
court-approved desegregation program. In order that
the School Board 
[358 U.S. 5]
 might know, without
doubt, its duty in this regard before the opening of
school, which had been set for the following Monday,
September 15, 1958, we immediately issued the
judgment, reserving the expression of our supporting
views to a later date.
This opinion of all of the
members of the Court embodies those views.
The following are the facts and circumstances so far as
necessary to show how the legal questions are presented.
On May 17, 1954, this Court decided that enforced racial
segregation in the public schools of a State is a denial of
the equal protection of the laws enjoined by the
Fourteenth Amendment. Brown v. Board of Education,
347 U.S. 483.
[358 U.S. 6]
  The Court postponed,
pending further argument, formulation of a decree to
effectuate this decision. That decree was rendered May
31, 1955. Brown v. Board of Education, 349 U.S. 294. In
the formulation of that decree the Court recognized that
good faith compliance with the principles declared in
Brown might in some situations "call for elimination of
a variety of obstacles in making the transition to school
systems operated in accordance with the constitutional
principles set forth in our May 17, 1954, decision." Id.,
at 300. The Court went on to state:
"Courts of equity may properly take into account the public interest
in the elimination of such obstacles in a systematic and effective
manner. But it should go without saying that the vitality of these
constitutional principles cannot be allowed to yield simply because
of disagreement with them.
"While giving weight to these public and private considerations,
the courts will require that the defendants make a prompt and
reasonable start toward full compliance with our May 17, 1954,
ruling. Once such a start has been made, the courts may find that
additional time is necessary to carry out the ruling in an effective
manner. The burden rests upon the defendants to establish that
such time is necessary in the public interest and is consistent with
good faith compliance at the earliest practicable date. To that end,
the courts may consider problems related to administration, arising
from the physical condition of the school plant, the school
transportation system, personnel, revision of school districts and
attendance areas into compact units to achieve a system of
determining admission to the public schools on a nonracial basis,
and revision of local laws and regulations which may be necessary
in solving the foregoing problems." 349 U. S., at 300-301.
[358 U.S. 7]
 Under such circumstances, the District
Courts were directed to require "a prompt and
reasonable start toward full compliance," and to take
such action as was necessary to bring about the end of
racial segregation in the public schools "with all
deliberate speed." Ibid. Of course, in many locations,
obedience to the duty of desegregation would require
the immediate general admission of Negro children,
segregation will promote the public peace by preventing
race conflicts. Desirable as this is, and important as is the
preservation of the public peace, this aim cannot be
accomplished by laws or ordinances which deny rights
created or protected by the Federal Constitution."
Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U.S. 60, 81. Thus law and
order are not here to be preserved by depriving the
Negro children of their constitutional rights. The record
before us clearly establishes that the growth of the
Board's difficulties to a magnitude beyond its unaided
power to control is the product of state action. Those
difficulties, as counsel for the Board forthrightly
conceded on the oral argument in this Court, can also be
brought under control by state action.
The controlling legal principles are plain. The command
of the Fourteenth Amendment is that no "State" shall
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws. "A State acts by its legislative, its
executive, or its judicial authorities. It can act in no 
[358
U.S. 17]
 other way. The constitutional provision,
therefore, must mean that no agency of the State, or of
the officers or agents by whom its powers are exerted,
shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws. Whoever, by virtue of public
position under a State government, . . . denies or takes
away the equal protection of the laws, violates the
constitutional inhibition; and as he acts in the name and
for the State, and is clothed with the State's power, his
act is that of the State. This must be so, or the
constitutional prohibition has no meaning." Ex parte
Virginia, 100 U.S. 339, 347. Thus the prohibitions of the
Fourteenth Amendment extend to all action of the State
denying equal protection of the laws; whatever the
agency of the State taking the action, see Virginia v.
Rives, 100 U.S. 313; Pennsylvania v. Board of Directors
of City Trusts of Philadelphia, 353 U.S. 230; Shelley v.
Kraemer, 334 U.S. 1; or whatever the guise in which it is
taken, see Derrington v. Plummer, 240 F.2d 922;
Department of Conservation and Development v. Tate,
231 F.2d 615. In short, the constitutional rights of
children not to be discriminated against in school
admission on grounds of race or color declared by this
Court in the Brown case can neither be nullified openly
and directly by state legislators or state executive or
judicial officers, nor nullified indirectly by them through
evasive schemes for segregation whether attempted
"ingeniously or ingenuously." Smith v. Texas, 311 U.S.
128, 132.
What has been said, in the light of the facts developed, is
enough to dispose of the case. However, we should
answer the premise of the actions of the Governor and
Legislature that they are not bound by our holding in
the Brown case. It is necessary only to recall some basic
constitutional propositions which are settled doctrine.
[358 U.S. 18]
 Article VI of the Constitution makes the
Constitution the "supreme Law of the Land." In 1803,
Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for a unanimous Court,
referring to the Constitution as "the fundamental and
paramount law of the nation," declared in the notable
case of Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 177, that "It
is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial
department to say what the law is." This decision
declared the basic principle that the federal judiciary is
supreme in the exposition of the law of the
Constitution, and that principle has ever since been
respected by this Court and the Country as a permanent
and indispensable feature of our constitutional system. It
follows that the interpretation of the Fourteenth
Amendment enunciated by this Court in the Brown case
is the supreme law of the land, and Art. VI of the
Constitution makes it of binding effect on the States
"any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to
the Contrary notwithstanding." Every state legislator
and executive and judicial officer is solemnly committed
by oath taken pursuant to Art. VI, cl. 3, "to support this
Constitution." Chief Justice Taney, speaking for a
unanimous Court in 1859, said that this requirement
reflected the framers' "anxiety to preserve it [the
Constitution] in full force, in all its powers, and to guard
against resistance to or evasion of its authority, on the
part of a State . . . ." Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506,
524.
No state legislator or executive or judicial officer can
war against the Constitution without violating his
undertaking to support it. Chief Justice Marshall spoke
for a unanimous Court in saying that: "If the legislatures
of the several states may, at will, annul the judgments of
the courts of the United States, and destroy the rights
acquired under those judgments, the constitution itself
becomes a solemn mockery . . . ." United States v. Peters,
5 Cranch 115, 136. A Governor who asserts a 
[358 U.S.
19]
 power to nullify a federal court order is similarly
restrained. If he had such power, said Chief Justice
Hughes, in 1932, also for a unanimous Court, "it is
manifest that the fiat of a state Governor, and not the
Constitution of the United States, would be the supreme
law of the land; that the restrictions of the Federal
Constitution upon the exercise of state power would be
but impotent phrases . . . ." Sterling v. Constantin, 287
U.S. 378, 397-398.
It is, of course, quite true that the responsibility for
public education is primarily the concern of the States,
but it is equally true that such responsibilities, like all
other state activity, must be exercised consistently with
federal constitutional requirements as they apply to state
action. The Constitution created a government
dedicated to equal justice under law. The Fourteenth
Amendment embodied and emphasized that ideal. State
support of segregated schools through any arrangement,
management, funds, or property cannot be squared with
the Amendment's command that no State shall deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of
the laws. The right of a student not to be segregated on
racial grounds in schools so maintained is indeed so
fundamental and pervasive that it is embraced in the
concept of due process of law. Bolling v. Sharpe, 347
U.S. 497. The basic decision in Brown was unanimously
reached by this Court only after the case had been
briefed and twice argued and the issues had been given
the most serious consideration. Since the first Brown
opinion three new Justices have come to the Court.
They are at one with the Justices still on the Court who
participated in that basic decision as to its correctness,
and that decision is now unanimously reaffirmed. The
principles announced in that decision and the obedience
of the States to them, according to the command of the
Constitution, 
[358 U.S. 20]
 are indispensable for the
protection of the freedoms guaranteed by our
fundamental charter for all of us. Our constitutional
ideal of equal justice under law is thus made a living
truth.