While unreservedly participating with my brethren in
our joint opinion, I deem it appropriate also to deal
individually with the great issue here at stake.
By working together, by sharing in a common effort,
men of different minds and tempers, even if they do not
reach agreement, acquire understanding and thereby
tolerance of their differences. This process was under
way in Little Rock. The detailed plan formulated by the
Little Rock School Board, in the light of local
circumstances, had been approved by the United States
District Court in Arkansas as satisfying the
requirements of this Court's decree in Brown v. Board
of Education, 349 U.S. 294. The Little Rock School
Board had embarked on an educational effort "to obtain
public acceptance" of its plan. Thus the process of the
community's accommodation to new demands of law
upon it, the development of habits of acceptance of the
right of colored children to the equal protection of the
laws guaranteed by the Constitution, had peacefully and
promisingly begun. The condition in Little Rock before
this process was forcibly impeded by those in control of
the government of Arkansas was thus described by the
District Court, and these findings of fact have not been
controverted:
"14. Up to this time, no crowds had gathered about Central High
School and no acts of violence or threats of violence in connection
with the carrying out of the plan had occurred. Nevertheless, out of
an abundance of caution, the school authorities had 
[358 U.S. 21]
frequently conferred with the Mayor and Chief of Police of Little
Rock about taking appropriate steps by the Little Rock police to
prevent any possible disturbances or acts of violence in connection
with the attendance of the 9 colored students at Central High
School. The Mayor considered that the Little Rock police force
could adequately cope with any incidents which might arise at the
opening of school. The Mayor, the Chief of Police, and the school
authorities made no request to the Governor or any representative
of his for State assistance in maintaining peace and order at Central
High School. Neither the Governor nor any other official of the
State government consulted with the Little Rock authorities about
whether the Little Rock police were prepared to cope with any
incidents which might arise at the school, about any need for State
assistance in maintaining peace and order, or about stationing the
Arkansas National Guard at Central High School." 156 F.Supp. 220,
225.
All this was disrupted by the introduction of the state
militia and by other obstructive measures taken by the
State. The illegality of these interferences with the
constitutional right of Negro children qualified to enter
the Central High School is unaffected by whatever
action or non-action the Federal Government had seen
fit to take. Nor is it neutralized by the undoubted good
faith of the Little Rock School Board in endeavoring to
discharge its constitutional duty.
The use of force to further obedience to law is in any
event a last resort and one not congenial to the spirit of
our Nation. But the tragic aspect of this disruptive tactic
was that the power of the State was used not to sustain
law but as an instrument for thwarting law. The State of
Arkansas is thus responsible for disabling one 
[358 U.S.
22]
 of its subordinate agencies, the Little Rock School
Board, from peacefully carrying out the Board's and the
State's constitutional duty. Accordingly, while Arkansas
is not a formal party in these proceedings and a decree
cannot go against the State, it is legally and morally
before the Court.
We are now asked to hold that the illegal, forcible
interference by the State of Arkansas with the
continuance of what the Constitution commands, and
the consequences in disorder that it entrained, should be
recognized as justification for undoing what the School
Board had formulated, what the District Court in 1955
had directed to be carried out, and what was in process
of obedience. No explanation that may be offered in
support of such a request can obscure the inescapable
meaning that law should bow to force. To yield to such
a claim would be to enthrone official lawlessness, and
lawlessness if not checked is the precursor of anarchy.
On the few tragic occasions in the history of the Nation,
North and South, when law was forcibly resisted or
systematically evaded, it has signalled the breakdown of
constitutional processes of government on which
ultimately rest the liberties of all. Violent resistance to
law cannot be made a legal reason for its suspension
without loosening the fabric of our society. What could
this mean but to acknowledge that disorder under the
aegis of a State has moral superiority over the law of the
Constitution? For those in authority thus to defy the law
of the land is profoundly subversive not only of our
constitutional system but of the presuppositions of a
democratic society. The State "must . . . yield to an
authority that is paramount to the State." This language
of command to a State is Mr. Justice Holmes', speaking
for the Court that comprised Mr. Justice Van Devanter,
Mr. Justice McReynolds, Mr. Justice Brandeis, Mr.
Justice Sutherland, 
[358 U.S. 23]
 Mr. Justice Butler, and
Mr. Justice Stone. Wisconsin v. Illinois, 281 U.S. 179,
197.
When defiance of law judicially pronounced was last
sought to be justified before this Court, views were
expressed which are now especially relevant:
"The historic phrase `a government of laws and not of men'
epitomizes the distinguishing character of our political society.
When John Adams put that phrase into the Massachusetts
Declaration of Rights he was not indulging in a rhetorical flourish.
He was expressing the aim of those who, with him, framed the
Declaration of Independence and founded the Republic. `A
government of laws and not of men' was the rejection in positive
terms of rule by fiat, whether by the fiat of governmental or private
power. Every act of government may be challenged by an appeal to
law, as finally pronounced by this Court. Even this Court has the
last say only for a time. Being composed of fallible men, it may err.
But revision of its errors must be by orderly process of law. The
Court may be asked to reconsider its decisions, and this has been
done successfully again and again throughout our history. Or, what
this Court has deemed its duty to decide may be changed by
legislation, as it often has been, and, on occasion, by constitutional
amendment.
"But from their own experience and their deep reading in history,
the Founders knew that Law alone saves a society from being rent
by internecine strife or ruled by mere brute power however
disguised. `Civilization involves subjection of force to reason, and
the agency of this subjection is law.' (Pound, The Future of Law
(1937) 47 Yale L. J. 1, 13.) The conception of a government by laws
dominated the thoughts of those who founded this 
[358 U.S. 24]
Nation and designed its Constitution, although they knew as well as
the belittlers of the conception that laws have to be made,
interpreted and enforced by men. To that end, they set apart a body
of men, who were to be the depositories of law, who by their
disciplined training and character and by withdrawal from the usual
temptations of private interest may reasonably be expected to be `as
free, impartial, and independent as the lot of humanity will admit.'
So strongly were the framers of the Constitution bent on securing a
reign of law that they endowed the judicial office with
extraordinary safeguards and prestige. No one, no matter how
exalted his public office or how righteous his private motive, can be
judge in his own case. That is what courts are for." United States v.
United Mine Workers, 330 U.S. 258, 307-309 (concurring
opinion).
The duty to abstain from resistance to "the supreme
Law of the Land," U. S. Const., Art. VI 
¶
 2, as declared
by the organ of our Government for ascertaining it,
does not require immediate approval of it nor does it
deny the right of dissent. Criticism need not be stilled.
Active obstruction or defiance is barred. Our kind of
society cannot endure if the controlling authority of the
Law as derived from the Constitution is not to be the
tribunal specially charged with the duty of ascertaining
and declaring what is "the supreme Law of the Land."
(See President Andrew Jackson's Message to Congress
of January 16, 1833, II Richardson, Messages and Papers
of the Presidents (1896 ed.), 610, 623.) Particularly is
this so where the declaration of what "the supreme Law"
commands on an underlying moral issue is not the
dubious pronouncement of a gravely divided Court but
is the unanimous conclusion of a long-matured
deliberative process. The Constitution is not the
formulation of the 
[358 U.S. 25]
 merely personal views
of the members of this Court, nor can its authority be
reduced to the claim that state officials are its controlling
interpreters. Local customs, however hardened by time,
are not decreed in heaven. Habits and feelings they
engender may be counteracted and moderated.
Experience attests that such local habits and feelings will
yield, gradually though this be, to law and education.
And educational influences are exerted not only by
explicit teaching. They vigorously flow from the fruitful
exercise of the responsibility of those charged with
political official power and from the almost
unconsciously transforming actualities of living under
law.
The process of ending unconstitutional exclusion of
pupils from the common school system—"common"
meaning shared alike—solely because of color is no
doubt not an easy, overnight task in a few States where a
drastic alteration in the ways of communities is
involved. Deep emotions have, no doubt, been stirred.
They will not be calmed by letting violence
loose—violence and defiance employed and encouraged
by those upon whom the duty of law observance should
have the strongest claim—nor by submitting to it under
whatever guise employed. Only the constructive use of
time will achieve what an advanced civilization demands
and the Constitution confirms.
For carrying out the decision that color alone cannot bar
a child from a public school, this Court has recognized
the diversity of circumstances in local school situations.
But is it a reasonable hope that the necessary endeavors
for such adjustment will be furthered, that racial
frictions will be ameliorated, by a reversal of the process
and interrupting effective measures toward the
necessary goal? The progress that has been made in
respecting the constitutional rights of the Negro
children, according to the graduated plan sanctioned by
the two 
[358 U.S. 26]
 lower courts, would have to be
retraced, perhaps with even greater difficulty because of
deference to forcible resistance. It would have to be
retraced against the seemingly vindicated feeling of
those who actively sought to block that progress. Is
there not the strongest reason for concluding that to
accede to the Board's request, on the basis of the
circumstances that gave rise to it, for a suspension of the
Board's non-segregation plan, would be but the
beginning of a series of delays calculated to nullify this
Court's adamant decisions in the Brown case that the
Constitution precludes compulsory segregation based on
color in state-supported schools?
That the responsibility of those who exercise power in a
democratic government is not to reflect inflamed public
feeling but to help form its understanding, is especially
true when they are confronted with a problem like a
racially discriminating public school system. This is the
lesson to be drawn from the heartening experience in
ending enforced racial segregation in the public schools
in cities with Negro populations of large proportions.
Compliance with decisions of this Court, as the
constitutional organ of the supreme Law of the Land,
has often, throughout our history, depended on active
support by state and local authorities. It presupposes
such support. To withhold it, and indeed to use political
power to try to paralyze the supreme Law, precludes the
maintenance of our federal system as we have known
and cherished it for one hundred and seventy years.
Lincoln's appeal to "the better angels of our nature"
failed to avert a fratricidal war. But the compassionate
wisdom of Lincoln's First and Second Inaugurals
bequeathed to the Union, cemented with blood, a moral
heritage which, when drawn upon in times of stress and
strife, is sure to find specific ways and means to
surmount difficulties that may appear to be
insurmountable.