This case presents the "subtle and complex question
with far-reaching implications," alluded to but not
answered in Moor v. County of Alameda, 411 U.S. 693,
715 (1973), and Philbrook v. Glodgett, 421 U.S. 707, 720
(1975): whether the doctrine of pendent jurisdiction
extends to confer jurisdiction over a party as to whom
[427 U.S. 3] no independent basis of federal jurisdiction
exists. In this action, where jurisdiction over the main,
federal claim against various officials of Spokane
County, Wash., was grounded in 28 U. S. C. § 1343 (3),
the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held that
pendent jurisdiction was not available to adjudicate
petitioner's state-law claims against Spokane County,
over which party federal jurisdiction was otherwise
nonexistent. While noting that its previous holdings to
this effect were left undisturbed by Moor, which arose
from that Circuit, the Court of Appeals was "not
unaware of the widespread rejection" of its position in
almost all other Federal Circuits. 513 F.2d 1257, 1261
(1975). We granted certiorari to resolve the conflict on
this important question. 423 U.S. 823 (1975). We
affirm.
I
This case arises at the pleading stage, and the allegations
in petitioner's complaint are straightforward. Petitioner
was hired in 1971 by respondent Howard, the Spokane
County treasurer, for clerical work in that office. Two
months later Howard informed petitioner by letter that
although her job performance was "excellent," she
would be dismissed, effective two weeks hence, because
she was allegedly "living with [her] boy friend."
Howard's action, petitioner alleged, was taken pursuant
to a state statute which provides that the appointing
county officer "may revoke each appointment at
pleasure." Though a hearing was requested, none was
held before or after the effective date of the discharge.
Petitioner's action in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Washington, as embodied in
her second amended complaint, claimed principally
under [427 U.S. 4] the Civil Rights Act of 1871, 42 U. S.
C. § 1983, that the discharge violated her substantive
constitutional rights under the First, Ninth, and
Fourteenth Amendments, and was procedurally
defective under the latter's Due Process Clause. An
injunction restraining the dismissal and damages for
salary loss were sought against Howard, his wife, the
named county commissioners, and the county.
Jurisdiction over the federal claim was asserted under 28
U. S. C. § 1343 (3),4 and pendent jurisdiction was
alleged to lie over the "state law claims against the
parties." As to the county, the state-law [427 U.S. 5]
claim was said to rest on state statutes waiving the
county's sovereign immunity and providing for
vicarious liability arising out of tortious conduct of its
officials. 513 F. 2d, at 1358. The District Court
dismissed the action as to the county on the ground that
since it was not suable as a "person" under § 1983, there
was no independent basis of jurisdiction over the
county, and thus "this court [has no] power to exercise
pendent jurisdiction over the claims against Spokane
County." From this final judgment, see Fed. Rule Civ.
Proc. 54 (b), petitioner appealed.
The Court of Appeals first rejected petitioner's claim
that her § 1983 action against the county fell within the
District Court's § 1343 (3) jurisdiction, as obviously
foreclosed by this Court's decisions in Moor, supra, and
City of Kenosha v. Bruno, 412 U.S. 507 (1973). Turning
to petitioner's pendent-jurisdiction argument, the Court
of Appeals noted, 513 F. 2d, at 1260, that the District
Court had made no alternative ruling on the "suitability
of this case for the discretionary exercise of pendent
jurisdiction" under the second part of the rule
enunciated in Mine Workers v. Gibbs, 383 U.S. 715,
726-727 (1966). But since this Court in Moor had
expressly left undisturbed the Ninth Circuit's refusal to
apply pendent jurisdiction over a nonfederal party, the
instant panel felt free to apply that rule as set out in
Hymer v. Chai, 407 F.2d 136 (CA9 1969), and Moor v.
Madigan, 458 F.2d 1217 (CA9 1972), aff'd in part, rev'd
in part, 411 U.S. 693 (1973). This kind of case, the Court
of Appeals reasoned, presented the "weakest rationale"
for extension of Gibbs to pendent parties: (1) The state
claims are pressed against a party who would otherwise
not be in federal court; (2) diversity cases generally
present more [427 U.S. 6] attractive opportunities for
exercise of pendent-party jurisdiction, since all claims
therein by definition arise from state law; (3) federal
courts should be wary of extending court-created
doctrines of jurisdiction to reach parties who are
expressly excluded by Congress from liability, and hence
federal jurisdiction, in the federal statute sought to be
applied to the defendant in the main claim; (4) pendent
state-law claims arising in a civil rights context will
"almost inevitably" involve the federal court in difficult
and unsettled questions of state law, with the
accompanying potential for jury confusion. 513 F. 2d, at
1261-1262.
II
The question whether "pendent" federal jurisdiction
encompasses not merely the litigation of additional
claims between parties with respect to whom there is
federal jurisdiction, but also the joining of additional
parties with respect to whom there is no independent
basis of federal jurisdiction, has been much litigated in
other federal courts and much discussed by
commentators since this Court's decision in Gibbs.
Gibbs, in turn, is the most recent in a long line of our
cases dealing with the relationship between the judicial
power of the United States and the actual contours of
the cases and controversies to which that power is
extended by Art. III.
In Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738
(1824),[427 U.S. 7] Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in his
opinion for the Court addressed the argument that the
presence in a federal lawsuit of questions which were
not dependent on the construction of a law of the
United States prevented the federal court from
exercising Art. III jurisdiction, even in a case in which
the plaintiff had been authorized by Congress to sue in
federal court. Noting that "[t]here is scarcely any case,
every part of which depends" upon federal law, id., at
820, the Chief Justice rejected the contention:
"If it be a sufficient foundation for jurisdiction, that the title or right
set up by the party, may be defeated by one construction of the
constitution or law of the United States, and sustained by the
opposite construction, provided the facts necessary to support the
action be made out, then all the other questions must be decided as
incidental to this, which gives that jurisdiction. Those other
questions cannot arrest the proceedings. . . .
"We think, then, that when a question to which the judicial power
of the Union is extended by the constitution, forms an ingredient of
the original cause, it is in the power of congress to give the Circuit
Courts jurisdiction of that cause, although other questions of fact or
of law may be involved in it." Id., at 822-823.
This doctrine was later applied in Siler v. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co., 213 U.S. 175 (1909), to hold that
where federal jurisdiction is properly based on a
colorable federal claim, the court has the "right to decide
all the questions in the case, even though it decided the
Federal questions adversely to the party raising them, or
even if it omitted to decide them at all, but decided the
case on local or state questions only." Id., at 191. In
Moore v. N. Y. Cotton Exchange, 270 U.S. 593, 609-610
(1926), [427 U.S. 8] the Court in similar fashion
sustained jurisdiction over a defendant's compulsory
counterclaim arising out of the same transaction upon
which the plaintiff's federal antitrust claim was
grounded, although the latter had been dismissed for
failure to state a claim, and the former had no
independent federal jurisdictional basis. A few years
later, in Hurn v. Oursler, 289 U.S. 238 (1933), the Court
drew upon the foregoing cases to establish federal
jurisdiction to decide a state-law claim joined with a
federal copyright infringement claim, where both were
considered "two distinct grounds in support of a single
cause of action," although the federal ground had proved
unsuccessful. Id., at 246.
In Gibbs, the respondent brought an action in federal
court against petitioner UMW, asserting parallel
claims— a federal statutory claim and a claim under the
common law of Tennessee—arising out of alleged
concerted union efforts to deprive him of contractual
and employment relationships with the coal mine's
owners. Though the federal claim was ultimately
dismissed after trial, and though diversity was absent,
the lower courts sustained jurisdiction over the statelaw
claim, and affirmed the damages award based
thereon. Before reaching the merits (on which the lower
courts were reversed), this Court addressed the
argument that under the rule of pendent jurisdiction as
set out in Hurn v. Oursler, supra, at 245-246, Gibbs had
merely stated "two separate and distinct causes of
action" as opposed to "two distinct grounds in support
of a single cause of action," in which former case the
federal court lacked the power to "retain and dispose" of
the "non-federal cause of action." The Court stated that
since the Hurn test was formulated before the
unification of law and equity by the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure, it was therefore unnecessarily tied to
the outmoded concept of a "cause of [427 U.S. 9] action"
developed under code pleading rules. Recognizing that
the Federal Rules themselves cannot expand federalcourt
jurisdiction, the Court nevertheless found in them
a sufficient basis to go beyond Hurn's "unnecessarily
grudging" approach to parallel claims, and to adopt a
more flexible treatment within the contours of Art. III,
§ 2. Thus, in a federal-question case, where the federal
claim is of sufficient substance, and the factual
relationship between "that claim and the state claim
permits the conclusion that the entire action before the
court comprises but one constitutional `case,' " pendent
jurisdiction extends to the state claim. 383 U. S., at 725.
The Court, in the second aspect of the Gibbs
formulation, went on to enumerate the various factors
bearing on a district court's discretionary decision
whether the power should be exercised in a given
parallel-claims case, emphasizing that "pendent
jurisdiction is a doctrine of discretion, not of plaintiff's
right." Id., at 726.
These cases, from Osborn to Gibbs, show that in
treating litigation where nonfederal questions or claims
were bound up with the federal claim upon which the
parties were already in federal court, this Court has
found nothing in Art. III's grant of judicial power which
prevented adjudication of the nonfederal portions of the
parties' dispute. None of them, however, adverted to the
separate question, involved in the instant case, of
whether a nonfederal claim could in turn be the basis for
joining a party over whom no independent federal
jurisdiction exists, simply because that claim could be
derived from the "common nucleus of operative fact"
giving rise to the dispute between the parties to the
federal claim.
But while none of the foregoing line of cases discussed
the joining of additional parties, other decisions of this
Court have developed a doctrine of "ancillary
jurisdiction," [427 U.S. 10] and it is in part upon this
development—and its relationship to Gibbs—that
petitioner relies to support "pendent party" jurisdiction
here. Under this doctrine, the Court has identified
certain considerations which justified the joining of
parties with respect to whom there was no independent
basis of federal jurisdiction. In Freeman v. Howe, 24
How. 450 (1861), the Court held that the state court had
no jurisdiction over a replevin action brought by
creditor claimants to property that had already been
attached by the federal marshal in a federal diversity
action. The claimants argued that a want of state-court
jurisdiction would leave them without a remedy, since
diversity between them and the marshal was lacking.
This Court stated that an equitable action in federal
court by those claimants, seeking to prevent injustice in
the diversity suit, would not have been "an original suit,
but ancillary and dependent, supplementary merely to
the original suit," and thus maintainable irrespective of
diversity of citizenship. Id., at 460. A similar approach
was taken in Stewart v. Dunham, 115 U.S. 61 (1885),
where, after a creditors' suit to set aside an allegedly
fraudulent conveyance was removed to federal court on
grounds of diversity, other nondiverse creditors were
permitted to intervene to assert an identical interest.
Since it was merely a matter of form whether the latter
appeared as parties or came in later under a final decree
to prove their claims before a master, the federal court
"could incidentally decree in favor of [the nondiverse]
creditors[, and s]uch a proceeding would be ancillary to
the jurisdiction acquired between the original parties . . .
." Id., at 64. Dunham was in turn held controlling in
Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur v. Cauble, 255 U.S. 356
(1921). There, suing in diversity, out-of-state "Class A"
members of an Indiana fraternal benefit society had
sought a decree adjudicating their common interests in
the control and disposition of [427 U.S. 11] the society's
funds. After successfully defending that action, the
society brought a second suit in federal court seeking to
protect that judgment as against an identical state-court
action brought by members of "Class A" who were of
Indiana citizenship. Since under Dunham "intervention
of the Indiana citizens in the [original] suit would not
have defeated the jurisdiction already acquired," 255 U.
S., at 366, the earlier judgment was binding against
them, and the federal court had ancillary jurisdiction
over the society's suit to enjoin the later state action,
irrespective of diversity.
The doctrine of ancillary jurisdiction developed in the
foregoing cases is bottomed on the notion that since
federal jurisdiction in the principal suit effectively
controls the property or fund under dispute, other
claimants thereto should be allowed to intervene in
order to protect their interest, without regard to
jurisdiction. As this Court stated in Fulton Bank v.
Hozier, 267 U.S. 276, 280 (1925):
"The general rule is that when a federal court has properly acquired
jurisdiction over a cause it may entertain, by intervention,
dependent or ancillary controversies; but no controversy can be
regarded as dependent or ancillary unless it has direct relation [427
U.S. 12] to property or assets actually or constructively drawn into
the court's possession or control by the principal suit."
The decisional bridge between these two relatively
discrete lines of cases appears to be this Court's decision
in Moore. Since the defendant's nonfederal
counterclaim in Moore arose out of the same
transaction giving rise to the antitrust dispute between
the parties, and federal jurisdiction was sustained over
the former, the Court in Hurn, though faced with a
plaintiff's assertion of pendent jurisdiction over an
additional nonfederal claim, thought the two cases, "in
principle, cannot be distinguished." Hurn, 289 U. S., at
242. It was Hurn's "unnecessarily grudging" test of
pendent jurisdiction, of course, which the Court
expanded in Gibbs. On the other hand, because Moore
was a suit in equity, the jurisdiction sustained there has
been rationalized as falling under the umbrella of
ancillary jurisdiction, though Moore neither used that
term nor cited to Fulton Bank, supra. Petitioner thus
suggests that since Moore, read as an "ancillary" case,
adopted a "transactional" test of jurisdiction quite
similar to that set out in Gibbs, there is presently no
"principled" distinction between the two doctrines.
Since under the Federal Rules "joinder of claims, parties
and remedies is strongly encouraged," Gibbs, 383 U. S.,
at 724, her use of the Rules here is as a matter of
jurisdictional power assertedly limited only by whether
the claim against the county "derive[s] from a common
nucleus of operative fact." Id., at 725. Hence, petitioner
concludes, based on Gibbs' treatment of pendent claims,
and the use of ancillary jurisdiction to [427 U.S. 13] bring
in additional parties, that her nonfederal claim against a
nonfederal defendant falls within pendent jurisdiction
since it satisfies Gibbs' test on its face.
For purposes of addressing the jurisdictional question in
this case, however, we think it quite unnecessary to
formulate any general, all-encompassing jurisdictional
rule. Given the complexities of the many manifestations
of federal jurisdiction, together with the countless
factual permutations possible under the Federal Rules,
there is little profit in attempting to decide, for example,
whether there are any "principled" differences between
pendent and ancillary jurisdiction; or, if there are, what
effect Gibbs had on such differences. Since it is upon
Gibbs' language that the lower federal courts have relied
in extending the kind of pendent-party jurisdiction
urged by petitioner here, we think the better approach is
to determine what Gibbs did and did not decide, and to
identify what we deem are important differences
between the jurisdiction sustained in Gibbs and that
asserted here.
Gibbs and its lineal ancestor, Osborn, were couched in
terms of Art. III's grant of judicial power in "Cases . . .
arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United
States, and [its] Treaties," since they (and implicitly the
cases which linked them) represented inquiries into the
scope of Art. III jurisdiction in litigation where the
"common nucleus of operative fact" gave rise to nonfederal
questions or claims between the parties. None of
them posed the need for a further inquiry into the
underlying statutory grant of federal jurisdiction or a
flexible analysis of concepts such as "question," "claim,"
and "cause of action," because Congress had not
addressed itself by statute to this matter. In short,
Congress had said nothing about the scope of the word
"Cases" in Art. III which would offer guidance on the
[427 U.S. 14] kind of elusive question addressed in
Osborn and Gibbs: whether and to what extent
jurisdiction extended to a parallel state claim against the
existing federal defendant.
Thus, it was perfectly consistent with Art. III, and the
particular grant of subject-matter jurisdiction upon
which the federal claim against the defendant in those
cases was grounded, to require that defendant to answer
as well to a second claim deriving from the "common
nucleus" of fact, though it be of state-law vintage. This
would not be an "unfair" use of federal power by the
suing party, he already having placed the defendant
properly in federal court for a substantial federal cause
of action. Judicial economy would also be served because
the plaintiff's claims were "such that he would ordinarily
be expected to try them all in one judicial proceeding . . .
." Gibbs, 383 U. S., at 725.
The situation with respect to the joining of a new party,
however, strikes us as being both factually and legally
different from the situation facing the Court in Gibbs
and its predecessors. From a purely factual point of
view, it is one thing to authorize two parties, already
present in federal court by virtue of a case over which
the court has jurisdiction, to litigate in addition to their
federal claim a state-law claim over which there is no
independent basis of federal jurisdiction. But it is quite
another thing to permit a plaintiff, who has asserted a
claim against one defendant with respect to which there
is federal jurisdiction, to join an entirely different
defendant on the basis of a state-law claim over which
there is no independent basis of federal jurisdiction,
simply because his claim against the first defendant and
his claim against the second defendant "derive from a
common nucleus of operative fact." Ibid. True, the same
considerations of judicial economy would be served [427
U.S. 15] insofar as plaintiff's claims "are such that he
would ordinarily be expected to try them all in one
judicial proceeding . . . ." Ibid. But the addition of a
completely new party would run counter to the wellestablished
principle that federal courts, as opposed to
state trial courts of general jurisdiction, are courts of
limited jurisdiction marked out by Congress. We think
there is much sense in the observation of Judge Sobeloff,
writing for the Court of Appeals in Kenrose Mfg. Co. v.
Fred Whitaker Co., 512 F.2d 890, 894 (CA4 1972):
"The value of efficiency in the disposition of law-suits by avoiding
multiplicity may be readily conceded, but that is not the only
consideration a federal court should take into account in assessing
the presence or absence of jurisdiction. Especially is this true where,
as here, the efficiency plaintiff seeks so avidly is available without
question in the state courts."
There is also a significant legal difference. In Osborn
and Gibbs Congress was silent on the extent to which
the defendant, already properly in federal court under a
statute, might be called upon to answer nonfederal
questions or claims; the way was thus left open for the
Court to fashion its own rules under the general
language of Art. III. But the extension of Gibbs to this
kind of "pendent party" jurisdiction—bringing in an
additional defendant at the behest of the
plaintiff—presents rather different statutory
jurisdictional considerations. Petitioner's contention
that she should be entitled to sue Spokane County as a
new third party, and then to try a wholly state-law claim
against the county, all of which would be "pendent" to
her federal claim against respondent county treasurer,
must be decided, not in the context of congressional
silence or tacit encouragement, but in [427 U.S. 16] quite
the opposite context. The question here, which it was
not necessary to address in Gibbs or Osborn, is whether
by virtue of the statutory grant of subject-matter
jurisdiction, upon which petitioner's principal claim
against the treasurer rests, Congress has addressed itself
to the party as to whom jurisdiction pendent to the
principal claim is sought. And it undoubtedly has done
so.
III
Congress has in specific terms conferred Art. III
jurisdiction on the district courts to decide actions
brought to redress deprivations of civil rights. Under the
opening language of § 1343, those courts "shall have
original jurisdiction of any civil action authorized by law
to be commenced by any person . . ." (emphasis added).
The civil rights action set out in § 1983 is, of course,
included within the jurisdictional grant of subsection (3)
of § 1343. Yet petitioner does not, and indeed could not,
contest the fact that as to § 1983, counties are excluded
from the "person[s]" answerable to the plaintiff "in an
action at law [or] suit in equity" to redress the
enumerated deprivations. Petitioner must necessarily
argue that in spite of the language emphasized above
Congress left it open for the federal courts to fashion a
jurisdictional doctrine under the general language of
Art. III enabling them to circumvent this exclusion, as
long as the civil rights action and the state-law claim
arise from a "common nucleus of operative fact." But the
question whether jurisdiction over the instant lawsuit
extends not only to a related state-law claim, but to the
defendant against whom that claim is made, turns
initially, not on the general [427 U.S. 17] contours of the
language in Art. III, i. e., "Cases . . . arising under," but
upon the deductions which may be drawn from
congressional statutes as to whether Congress wanted to
grant this sort of jurisdiction to federal courts. Parties
such as counties, whom Congress excluded from liability
in § 1983, and therefore by reference in the grant of
jurisdiction under § 1343 (3), can argue with a great deal
of force that the scope of that "civil action" over which
the district courts have been given statutory jurisdiction
should not be so broadly read as to bring them back
within that power merely because the facts also give rise
to an ordinary civil action against them under state law.
In short, as against a plaintiff's claim of additional power
over a "pendent party," the reach of the statute
conferring jurisdiction should be construed in light of
the scope of the cause of action as to which federal
judicial power has been extended by Congress.
Resolution of a claim of pendent-party jurisdiction,
therefore, calls for careful attention to the relevant
statutory language. As we have indicated, we think a fair
reading of the language used in § 1343, together with
the scope of § 1983, requires a holding that the joinder
of a municipal corporation, like the county here, for
purposes of asserting a state-law claim not within
federal diversity jurisdiction, is without the statutory
jurisdiction of the district court.
[427 U.S. 18] There are, of course, many variations in
the language which Congress has employed to confer
jurisdiction upon the federal courts, and we decide here
only the issue of so-called "pendent party" jurisdiction
with respect to a claim brought under §§ 1343 (3) and
1983. Other statutory grants and other alignments of
parties and claims might call for a different result. When
the grant of jurisdiction to a federal court is exclusive,
for example, as in the prosecution of tort claims against
the United States under 28 U. S. C. § 1346, the
argument of judicial economy and convenience can be
coupled with the additional argument that only in a
federal court may all of the claims be tried together. As
we indicated at the outset of this opinion, the question
of pendent-party jurisdiction is "subtle and complex,"
and we believe that it would be as unwise as it would be
unnecessary to lay down any sweeping pronouncement
upon the existence or exercise of such jurisdiction. Two
observations suffice for the disposition of the type of
case before us. If the new party sought to be joined is
not otherwise subject to federal jurisdiction, there is a
more serious obstacle to the exercise of pendent
jurisdiction than if parties already before the court are
required to litigate a state-law claim. Before it can be
concluded that such jurisdiction exists, a federal court
must satisfy itself not only that Art. III permits it, but
that Congress in the statutes conferring jurisdiction has
not expressly or by implication negated its existence.
[427 U.S. 19] We conclude that in this case Congress has
by implication declined to extend federal jurisdiction
over a party such as Spokane County. The judgment of
the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is therefore
Affirmed.