The plaintiffs in this case are eight individuals involved
in a clinical drug trial sponsored by Amgen, Inc. When
the study was terminated, the plaintiffs sued claiming
that Amgen was legally required to continue providing
them with the drug. The plaintiffs filed a motion for a
preliminary injunction seeking to require Amgen to
provide them with the drug immediately. The district
court denied the motion and the plaintiffs appealed. For
the reasons discussed below, we AFFIRM the district
court's denial of the plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary
injunction.
I.
The plaintiffs are all Kentucky residents that suffer from
Parkinson's disease, a neurogenerative disorder
characterized by the progressive loss of dopamine-
producing neurons in the brain, resulting in tremors,
shaking, slow movement, and muscle stiffness and
rigidity. The current treatment 
[443 F.3d 543]
 for
Parkinson's disease focuses on replacing dopamine in
the brains of Parkinson's disease sufferers, thus masking
the symptoms of the disease. None of these current
treatments are curative, however, as none of them halt
the loss of dopamine-producing neurons.
A Colorado biotechnology company named Synergen,
Inc. designed a protein called gial cell-line derived
neutrotropic factor, commonly known as GDNF, which
pre-clinical (non-human) studies preliminarily indicated
could protect and restore dopamine producing neurons.
Believing that GDNF could potentially provide a
breakthrough treatment for Parkinson's disease, Amgen
purchased Synergen in 1994 for approximately $150
million. Having acquired the drug, however, Amgen
was now faced with the problem of how to effectively
deliver GDNF to the brain. In 1996, Amgen sponsored
two clinical studies of GDNF to determine whether a
delivery method known as intracerebroventicular
administration (ICV), in which the drug is injected
directly into the central fluid-filled cavities of the
patient's brain, was effective. Unfortunately, these
studies failed to prove that ICV was safe or effective as a
delivery method.
Subsequently, Dr. Steven S. Gill of Frenchay Hospital in
Bristol, England developed a means of delivering the
drug directly to the brain known as bilateral
intraputaminal (IPu) infusion. This procedure involves
implanting a pump filled with GDNF in the patient's
abdomen attached to catheters which, when threaded
through the patient's check, neck, and head, deliver the
GDNF directly to the putamen region of the brain.
In 2000, Amgen supported an open-label trial in the
United Kingdom for the administration of GDNF using
IPu with five patients suffering from Parkinson's
disease. Although the study yielded favorable results
because the study was open-label, meaning study
participants knew they were receiving GDNF and no
participants received a placebo, Amgen concluded that
more research was necessary. Another open-label study
was also conducted at the University of Kentucky
medical center in which GDNF was administered via
IPu to ten patients.
1 
 All ten of these patients showed
benefits after six months of treatment but, it was unclear
whether this improvement was the result of the GDNF
or a placebo effect as there was no control group in the
study.
Based on the result open-label studies, in 2003 Amgen
sponsored a multi-center Phase II, randomized, double-
blind,
2 
 placebo-controlled study of GDNF using the IPu
method of delivery in order to test its safety and efficacy.
As part of this study, Amgen and the University of
Kentucky entered into a Clinical Trial Agreement.
Under the Agreement, Amgen agreed to sponsor the
University as one of the study center locations and the
University agreed to carry out Amgen's Protocol for the
trial. Amgen's Protocol, which was approved by the
Institutional Review Board at the University, indicated
that the trial would begin with each participant having a
pump inserted in their abdomen and the catheter
inserted through a hole drilled in their skull. The
participants would then receive treatment or a saline
placebo solution for approximately thirty-three weeks.
At the 
[443 F.3d 544]
 end of the study, the Protocol
indicated that the participants "may elect to continue
treatment for up to an additional 24 months."
The plaintiffs in this case elected to participate in the
clinical trial at the University. Each plaintiff signed an
Informed Consent Document, indicating that they were
aware of the risks of the clinical trial and agreeing to
participate. Like the Protocol, the Informed Consent
Document indicated that study participants could elect
to continue treatment for 24 months after the end of the
study. The Informed Consent Document also informed
participants in the study that they might be required to
withdraw from the study "if they find that your being in
the study is more risk than benefit to you, if you are not
able to follow the directions they give you, or if the
agency funding the study decides to stop the study early
for a variety of reasons." The Informed Consent
Document was signed by each participant and by the
physician investigators leading the study.
Using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale,
3
Amgen hoped to see a 25% increase in motor scores
relative to the placebo after six months of treatment. In
June 2004, the study results showed only a 10.01%
increase in the group using GDNF and a 4.52% increase
in the group being administered the placebo. Seven of
the thirty-four subjects demonstrated dramatic
improvement, but four of the seven were receiving the
placebo.
Despite these less than stellar results, Amgen decided to
continue with the clinical trial but convert it into an
open-label study with all thirty-four patients receiving
GDNF. The plaintiffs contend that after GDNF was
administered, they experienced marked physical,
cognitive, and emotional improvement. The plaintiffs
also have submitted affidavits from several patients from
other study locations attesting to similar improvements.
Moreover, the plaintiffs have submitted affidavits from
all of the doctors participating in the University of
Kentucky study and principal investigators involved in
the New York and Chicago studies that unanimously
state that GDNF is safe and effective.
Despite the plaintiffs' belief that GDNF was working, in
September 2004, Amgen announced that it was
terminating all clinical use of GDNF based on two
scientific concerns. The first was the discovery that
several study participants had developed neutralizing
antibodies. Antibodies are proteins produced by the
immune system that attack substances such as viruses,
bacteria, and in some cases, synthetic proteins like
GDNF. Such neutralizing antibodies could clear the
drug from a patient's system, neutralizing the effects of
the drug. More worrisome to Amgen, however, was
that the antibodies could attack naturally occurring
GDNF in the body. While it is unclear what naturally
occurring GDNF does, animal studies have shown that
an absence of GDNF during development causes
irreversible damage to vital organs.
The second disturbing discovery was that several
primates used in a long-term toxicology study of IPu
delivered GDNF developed lesions in the cerebullum, an
area of the brain critical for movement and
coordination. Based on these concerning scientific
findings along with the lack of efficacy shown by the
study, Amgen made the decision to terminate the study.
Amgen consulted the FDA regarding discontinuation of
the study and the FDA indicated 
[443 F.3d 545]
 that
given the evidence termination of the study was
reasonable.
The plaintiffs claim that the drug is effective and that
Amgen has exaggerated the safety risks of GDNF. The
plaintiffs submitted to the district court an affidavit
from the principal investigator of the New York study
suggesting that the primates's legions were not a cause
for alarm as the primates received larger doses of GDNF
than study participants received and because the
primates, unlike the study participants, were rapidly
withdrawn from GDNF. The affidavit also disagreed
with Amgen's placebo effect theory and asserted that the
antibodies found in several study participants were not
harmful.
The plaintiffs assert that Amgen's reasons for ending the
study were financial rather than safety and efficacy.
They allege that because of the prolonged time it took
Amgen to develop a delivery method for GDNF, Amgen
has little time left before its patent on the drug expires.
Moreover, based on the invasive means of delivering the
drug, only those with severe Parkinson's disease would
use the drug, leading to less profit. Finally, GDNF has a
short shelf life and thus Amgen would constantly be
required to produce new proteins. The plaintiffs claim
that all of these considerations led Amgen to conclude
that it was financially untenable to bring the drug to
market and thus Amgen terminated the study. Amgen
vehemently disputes the plaintiffs' claims.
4
After deciding to terminate the study, several
investigators and Amgen met with the FDA to consider
whether to permit "compassionate use," meaning use of
a drug even if the drug is proven unsafe, of GDNF for
the participants. The FDA stated that it would permit
compassionate use of GDNF but left the decision up to
Amgen. After seeking advice of eight external experts
(three bioethicists and five Parkinson's disease experts),
seven of whom advised Amgen to terminate the use of
the drug, Amgen decided not to allow compassionate
use of GDNF.
The plaintiffs filed suit on June 17, 2005, naming
Amgen as the sole defendant. The district court had
jurisdiction based on diversity of citizenship, and none
of the plaintiffs' causes of action arise under federal law.
On June 24, the plaintiffs moved for a preliminary
injunction requiring Amgen to provide the physicians at
the University of Kentucky with GDNF and to allow the
doctors to administer it to the plaintiffs. None of the
plaintiffs have received GDNF treatment since
September 2004.
The plaintiffs advanced three legal theories to support
their motion for a preliminary injunction. First, they
claimed that GDNF is beneficial to them, and that
Amgen is contractually obligated to supply them with
GDNF. Second, they argued that Amgen is liable under
a theory of promissory estoppel as Amgen promised to
continue to provide the plaintiffs with GDNF and the
plaintiffs detrimentally relied on this promise. Third,
they asserted that Amgen owes them a fiduciary duty,
and that is has breached that duty by unreasonably
denying them access to GDNF. In response, Amgen
denied that it made any such enforceable promises to the
plaintiffs and denied owing the plaintiffs any fiduciary
duty.
The district court held a hearing on the plaintiffs'
motion on July 5 and on July 8 denied the motion. The
district court concluded that the plaintiffs had failed to
[443 F.3d 546]
 demonstrate a strong likelihood of
success on the merits based on any of their claims. The
district court also concluded that the plaintiffs could not
prove that they would suffer irreparable harm if they did
not obtain a preliminary injunction nor could they
establish that public policy would be furthered by
issuing the injunction. Thus, the district court denied
the plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction. This
appeal ensued.
The district court's decision to deny the plaintiffs'
motion for a preliminary injunction relied in part on a
decision from the Southern District of New York in a
nearly identical case, Suthers v. Amgen, Inc., 372
F.Supp.2d 416 (S.D.N.Y.2005). In Suthers, two
Parkinson's disease sufferers who participated in the
Amgen study at the New York University site filed suit
against Amgen in the Southern District of New York
and sought a preliminary injunction requiring Amgen to
provide them with GDNF. The plaintiffs in Suthers
advanced nearly identical legal claims as this case: breach
of contract, promissory estoppel, and breach of fiduciary
duty. The district court denied the plaintiffs' motion on
grounds similar to the district court's reasoning here.
Specifically, the Suthers court concluded that the
plaintiffs "have shown neither a likelihood of success
nor a sufficiently serious showing of merits to warrant
the extraordinary relief of a preliminary injunction." Id.
at 419. The court found that the plaintiffs' breach of
contract claim was unlikely to succeed because the
plaintiffs could not show any contract between the
plaintiffs and Amgen. While their Informed Consent
document arguably gave them a right to GDNF, the
court concluded that this agreement was between the
plaintiffs and New York University rather than the
plaintiffs and Amgen, and that the principal
investigators did not have the authority to bind Amgen.
The court also concluded that the plaintiffs' promissory
estoppel argument had little chance of success as Amgen
had made no direct promises to the plaintiffs. Finally,
the court held that under the facts of the case, Amgen
did not have a fiduciary duty to continue treatment. As a
result of these determinations the district court did not
address whether the plaintiffs or the defendants would
suffer irreparable harm based on the district court's
decision. The plaintiffs in Suthers initially appealed the
district court's decision but later withdrew their appeal.
II.
The plaintiffs assert that the district court erred in
denying their motion for a preliminary injunction. We
review a district court's grant of a preliminary
injunction for an abuse of discretion. Tucker v. City of
Fairfield, 398 F.3d 457, 461 (6th Cir.2005). "A district
court abuses its discretion when it relies on clearly
erroneous findings of fact, improperly applies the law,
or uses an erroneous legal standard." Id. A district court
errs "only if it incorrectly applied the law, or relied on
clearly erroneous findings of fact." Ramsey v. Formica
Corp., 398 F.3d 421, 423 (6th Cir.2005). We review the
district court's conclusions of law de novo and its
findings of fact for clear error. Golden v. Kelsey-Hayes
Co., 73 F.3d 648, 653 (6th Cir.1996).
To determine whether to grant a preliminary
injunction, a district court must consider: "(1) the
plaintiffs' likelihood of success on the merits; (2)
whether the plaintiff may suffer irreparable harm absent
the injunction; (3) whether granting the injunction will
cause substantial harm to others; and (4) the impact of
an injunction upon the public interest." Deja Vu of
Nashville, Inc. v. Metro. Gov't of Nashville & Davidson
County, 274 F.3d 377, 400 (6th Cir.2001). "None of
these 
[443 F.3d 547]
 factors, standing alone, is a
prerequisite to relief; rather, the court should balance
them." Golden, 73 F.3d at 653. Thus, even though a
finding of no likelihood of success "is usually fatal[,]"
Gonzales v. Nat'l Bd. of Med. Exam'rs, 225 F.3d 620, 625
(6th Cir.2000), a district court should ordinarily analyze
all of the factors. Leary v. Daeschner, 228 F.3d 729, 739
n. 3 (6th Cir.2000). We will review the district court's
analysis as to each of these factors in order to ensure
that the district court did not abuse its discretion in
denying the plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary
injunction.
A.
The first factors to be considered is whether the
plaintiffs have demonstrated a likelihood of success on
the merits. The plaintiffs identify three grounds on
which they allege that Amgen is legally obligated to
provide them with GDNF—breach of contract,
promissory estoppel and fiduciary duty. The district
court concluded that the plaintiffs had little chance of
success on any of these grounds. We find nothing in the
record that suggests the district court abused its
discretion in reaching such a conclusion.
i.
Turning first to the plaintiffs' breach of contract claim,
the district court concluded that there was no breach of
contract by Amgen because no contract ever existed
between the plaintiffs and Amgen that required Amgen
to continue to provide the plaintiffs with GDNF. The
court found that the Informed Consent Document that
the plaintiffs rely upon as evidence of a contract
between them and Amgen did not directly bind Amgen
because neither Amgen nor any agent of Amgen signed
the Informed Consent Document. We find no abuse of
discretion in the district court's conclusion on this point.
Under Kentucky law, "in order to recover in any action
based on breach of a contract, a plaintiff must show the
existence and the breach of a contractually imposed
duty." Lenning v. Commercial Union Ins. Co., 260 F.3d
574, 581 (6th Cir.2001) (citing Strong v. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co., 240 Ky. 781, 43 S.W.2d 11, 13 (1931)).
Thus, the plaintiffs must show by clear and convincing
evidence proof of an actual agreement between them
and Amgen. See Auto Channel, Inc. v. Speedvision
Network, LLC, 144 F.Supp.2d 784, 790 (W.D.Ky.2001).
The plaintiffs admit that Amgen did not sign the
Informed Consent Document, which the plaintiffs point
to as the primary basis for their breach of contract claim.
Moreover, there are no other documents that create a
contractually enforceable duty for Amgen to continue to
provide GDNF to the plaintiffs. The Clinical Trial
Agreement was not signed by the plaintiffs but rather
was signed by Amgen, the University of Kentucky, and
the principal investigators. Thus, the plaintiffs' claim
that Amgen is directly contractually obligated to provide
the plaintiffs with GDNF is unlikely to succeed on the
merits because "it is axiomatic that courts cannot bind a
non-party to a contract because that party never agreed
to the terms set forth therein." EEOC v. Frank's Nursery
& Crafts, Inc., 177 F.3d 448, 460 (6th Cir. 1999).
5
[443 F.3d 548]
 Moreover, the principal investigators in
the University of Kentucky study were not in a position
to enter into a binding contract with the plaintiffs on
Amgen's behalf, as the district court correctly concluded
that the principal investigators were independent
contractors rather than Amgen's agents. Under
Kentucky law, whether a principal/agent relationship is
created rather than merely a principal/independent
contractor relationship is determined by examining the
following factors:
(a) the extent of control which, by the agreement, the master may
exercise over the details of the work;
(b) whether or not the one employed is engaged in a distinct
occupation or business;
(c) the kind of occupation, with reference to whether, in the
locality, the work is usually done under the direction of the
employer or by a specialist without supervision;
(d) the skill required in the particular occupation;
(e) whether the employer or the workman supplies the
instrumentalities, tools, and the place of work for the person doing
the work;
(f) the length of time for which the person is employed;
(g) the method of payment, whether by the time or by the job;
(h) whether or not the work is a part of the regular business of the
employer; and
(i) whether or not the parties believe they are creating the
relationship of master and servant.
Sam Horne Motor & Implement Co. v. Gregg, 279
S.W.2d 755, 756-757 (Ky.1955). Of these factors, the
most critical element in determining whether an agency
relationship exists is whether the alleged principal has
the right to control the details of the agent's work.
Grant v. Bill Walker Pontiac-GMC, Inc., 523 F.2d 1301,
1305 (6th Cir.1975); Bottled Gas, Inc. v. Borg-Warner
Corp., 56 F.3d 726, 736 (6th Cir. 1995).
Here, the above factors suggest that the district court did
not abuse its discretion in concluding that the plaintiffs
had little chance of success based on their agency theory
of contract liability. As the district court properly
pointed out: "The [Clinical Trial] Agreement provides
that the `Institution agrees to act as an independent
contractor without the capacity to legally bind Amgen
and also agrees that it is not acting as an agent or
employee of Amgen.' Because the Kentucky doctors
were employees of the University of Kentucky, they too
were independent contractors lacking the power to bind
Amgen." Abney v. Amgen, Inc., No. 5:05-CV-254-JMH,
2005 WL 1630154 (July 8, 2005 E.D.Ky.) (citing Berry v.
Delta Airlines, Inc., 260 F.3d 803, 812 (7th Cir.2001), for
the proposition that "an employee of an independent
contractor typically cannot be considered an agent of the
employer").
Other factors also indicate that the principal
investigators were independent contractors and not
agents of Amgen. The set up of the Kentucky study,
consistent with federal regulations, left the principal
investigators in charge of the details of the work. See 21
C.F.R. 
§
 312.60 (indicating that in a clinical drug trial
"[a]n investigator is responsible for ensuring that an
investigation is conducted according to the signed
investigator statement, the investigational plan, and
applicable regulations; for protecting the rights, safety,
and welfare of subjects under the investigator's care; and
for the control of drugs under investigation.").
Furthermore the principal 
[443 F.3d 549]
 investigators
drafted and implemented the Protocol for the study
themselves, not Amgen. Moreover, the doctors were
highly specialized professionals with extensive
experience in their field. The study took place at the
University of Kentucky, not at an Amgen facility. The
University also received a set amount of money from
Amgen as a result of the study. Finally, as the documents
regarding the study indicated, the study was structured
such that Amgen's sponsorship of the study would be
independent of control over the study. Thus, the above
factors indicate that the district court did not abuse its
discretion in concluding that it was unlikely that any
direct agency relationship existed between Amgen and
the University of Kentucky or its physicians.
Moreover, the record suggests that the district court was
similarly correct in concluding that it was unlikely that
the principal investigators had any apparent authority to
bind Amgen. Apparent authority, which may be
possessed by an independent contractor, is "the
authority the agent is held out by the principal as
possessing. It is a matter of appearance on which third
parties come to rely." Mill St. Church of Christ v.
Hogan, 785 S.W.2d 263, 267 (Ky.Ct.App.1990)
(emphasis added). Nothing in the record nor in the
plaintiffs' brief demonstrates any representations made
by Amgen to the plaintiffs that could have led the
plaintiffs to believe that the principal investigators were
agents of Amgen for purposes of the study. Nothing
suggests that Amgen even had any contact with any of
the plaintiffs as it was the principal investigators who
controlled the study and were in charge of the plaintiffs'
care. Thus, the district court did not abuse its discretion
in concluding that the plaintiffs' claim based on apparent
authority had little chance of success on the merits.
ii.
The plaintiffs' second claim is that Amgen is legally
required to provide them with GDNF based on
promissory estoppel. The plaintiffs' promissory estoppel
argument is premised on their claim that the principal
investigators informed them that they would make
decisions based upon the patients's best interests and
that if GDNF proved to be safe and effective, study
participants could continue to receive the medication
following termination of the study. The district court
concluded that "the plaintiffs have not shown a strong
likelihood of success on the merits because the plaintiffs
have not submitted any evidence of a clear promise by
Amgen." The district court did not abuse its discretion
in reaching such a conclusion.
Promissory estoppel requires "(1) a promise; (2) which
the promisor should reasonably expect to induce action
or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on
the part of the promisee; (3) which does induce such
action or forbearance; and (4) injustice can be avoided
only by enforcement of the promise." Bergman v.
Baptist Healthcare Sys., Inc., 344 F.Supp.2d 998, 1003
(W.D.Ky.2004) (analyzing Kentucky law). Where there
is no evidence of a promise, promissory estoppel cannot
be established.
In this case, there is no evidence of a promise by Amgen
to continue to provide the plaintiffs with GDNF
following the termination of the study. The plaintiffs do
not assert that Amgen directly promised to continue to
provide them with GDNF. Instead, they assert that the
principal investigators promised that the plaintiffs
would continue to receive the medication and that
subsequently Amgen is bound by those promises. This
theory is untenable, however, because, as discussed
above, neither the University of Kentucky nor the
principal 
[443 F.3d 550]
 investigators were agents of
Amgen. There is also no evidence that the University or
the principal investigators had the apparent authority to
bind Amgen via their promises to the plaintiffs. As a
result, the district court did not abuse its discretion in
concluding that there is little chance that the plaintiffs
will succeed on the merits of this claim.
iii.
The plaintiffs' final claim is that Amgen, working
through the principal investigators, breached its
fiduciary duty to ameliorate their pain and treat their
illness with the best medicine available. The district
court held that Amgen had no fiduciary duty to continue
to supply the plaintiffs with GDNF. The district court
did not abuse its discretion in concluding that the
plaintiffs' likelihood of success on this claim is minimal.
Under Kentucky law, while there is no set formula for
determining whether a fiduciary duty exists, "as a
general rule, [courts] can conclude that such a
relationship is one founded on trust or confidence
reposed by one person in the integrity and fidelity of
another and which also necessarily involves an
undertaking in which a duty is created in one person to
act primarily for another's benefit in matters connected
with such undertaking." Steelvest, Inc. v. Scansteel Serv.
Ctr., 807 S.W.2d 476, 485 (Ky.1991); Layne v. Bank
One, Ky., N.A., 395 F.3d 271, 281 (6th Cir.2005). While
"[f]iduciary relationships can be informal, [] they must
evidence circumstances showing both parties agreed
that one party would be acting in the interest of the
other." In re Sallee, 286 F.3d 878, 892 (6th Cir.2002).
In this case, the record does not demonstrate that
Amgen and the plaintiffs agreed that Amgen would be
acting primarily for the benefit of the plaintiffs. Amgen
had various reasons for the undertaking sponsorship of
the University of Kentucky study. While benefitting the
plaintiffs could arguably be described as one of those
reasons, there is nothing to suggest that the parties
agreed that this would be the primary reason for
Amgen's sponsorship of the study. Thus, the district
court did not abused its discretion in concluding that
there is no evidence Amgen has a fiduciary duty to the
plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs cite Grimes v. Kennedy Krieger Institute,
Inc., 366 Md. 29, 782 A.2d 807 (2001), in support of
their fiduciary duty claim. Grimes, however, is
distinguishable from this case as the district court
correctly decided. The manner in which the district
court in Suthers distinguished Grimes from Amgen's
GDNF study is helpful:
In Grimes, the Maryland Supreme Court found that medical
researchers owed a duty sounding in tort to children whose parents
had been induced to live in homes containing lead paint so that the
paint's effects could be measured against a control population
without such exposure. The researchers in Grimes designed the
study, recruited the subjects, and obtained their consent.
Understandably, the Maryland Supreme Court was concerned
about a "vulnerable research subject" who may have been provided
information to induce consent that was "incomplete in a material
respect." Grimes concluded that there was a duty to the research
subject independent of the consent, and that a consent form could
not be utilized to immunize the researchers from liability. The
Grimes court did not characterize the duty as that of a fiduciary or
offer any other characterization.
The dissimilarities between this case and Grimes are many. Here, a
therapeutic treatment was tested in a manner so 
[443 F.3d 551]
 that
the tests would comply with FDA regulations. To avoid the
potential that a pharmaceutical company with a financial interest in
the outcome would place participants at risk of needless harm,
independent research institutions and their physicians conducted
the clinical trials. In Grimes, the participants were in direct contact
and privity with the party who was found to have owed them a
duty. Here no claim is asserted against the principal investigator []
with whom plaintiffs had their dealings.
Suthers, 372 F.Supp.2d at 427. This analysis applies with
equal force to this case. Neither the Grimes case nor
Kentucky case law suggests that Amgen had a fiduciary
duty to the plaintiffs. Thus, the district court did not
abuse its discretion in concluding that the plaintiffs had
little chance of success as to this claim.
Although we express no ultimate view, it appears that
the plaintiffs might have considered suit against the
University of Kentucky's Institutional Review Board
and the physician investigators involved in the clinical
trial. It was the University that was legally bound by the
Informed Consent Document and thus arguably legally
obligated to continue to administer the treatment to the
plaintiffs. Moreover, as discussed above, under the
FDA's regulatory scheme it is not the pharmaceutical
companies that are charged with ensuring trial
participants' well being. Rather, it is the Institutional
Review Board that is meant to "protect the rights and
welfare" of trial participants during a clinical trial. 21
C.F.R. 
§
 56.101 (requiring university conducting clinical
trials to establish institutional review boards for the
purpose of "protect[ing] the rights and welfare of
human subjects involved in" clinical trials); see also 21
C.F.R. 
§
 56.103 (requiring institutional review boards to
approve all clinical trials before initiation and requiring
continuing review of clinical trials while they are being
conducted). Thus, while the plaintiffs' arguments have
little merit against Amgen, they may have merit against
the University and its Institutional Review Board.
6
B.
The second factors under the preliminary injunction test
is whether the plaintiffs will suffer immediate and
irreparable harm absent injunctive relief. The plaintiffs
assert that absent a preliminary injunction they would
suffer immediate, irreparable harm because without
GDNF they allege that their health will continue to
deteriorate as a result of their Parkinson's disease. The
district court concluded that "the plaintiffs [] failed to
meet their burden in proving that they would suffer
immediate, irreparable harm if an injunction is not
granted." While there is evidence in the record that
supports the plaintiffs' claim, the district court did not
abuse its discretion in concluding that the plaintiffs
failed to show irreparable harm absent a preliminary
injunction.
[443 F.3d 552]
 To demonstrate irreparable harm, the
plaintiffs must show that unless GDNF treatments
resumed immediately, they will suffer "actual and
imminent" harm rather than harm that is speculative or
unsubstantiated. See Monsanto Co. v. Manning, 841
F.2d 1126, 1988 WL 19169, at *6 (6th Cir. Mar. 8,
1998); Heideman v. South Salt Lake City, 348 F.3d 1182,
1189 (10th Cir.2003) (citing Wisconsin Gas Co. v.
FERC, 758 F.2d 669, 674 (D.C.Cir. 1985)). Here there is
no question that the plaintiffs' health will continue to
deteriorate as a result of their Parkinson's disease.
Nonetheless, there is no guarantee that the plaintiffs'
condition will improve or at least deteriorate at slower
rate if they are prescribed GDNF. Admittedly, the
plaintiffs have provided evidence suggesting that GDNF
is effective. There is evidence in the record that the
plaintiff subjectively felt an improvement in their
symptoms after being administered GDNF. In addition,
there is evidence in the record that the principal
investigators believe GDNF to be a safe and effective
treatment for the type of severe Parkinson's disease that
the plaintiffs are afflicted with.
Nonetheless, there is also evidence in the record that
rebuts the plaintiffs' claim that GDNF is safe and
effective. Amgen has submitted clinical evidence
indicating that there may be scientific reasons to be
concerned about the safety of GDNF based upon: (1)
cerebullum lesions developed by primates on GDNF and
(2) neutralizing antibodies found in some patients
taking GDNF. More importantly, there is evidence in
the record suggesting that even if the plaintiffs were
provided with GDNF their health might not improve.
The clinical data submitted by Amgen suggests that
GDNF administered via IPu proved ineffective in
clinical trial. The data can arguably be read as indicating
that any improvement in study participants was based
merely on a placebo effect. Thus, in the record there is
simply conflicting evidence as to whether GDNF would
really prevent irreparable harm to the plaintiffs if
immediately administered. Therefore the district court
did not abuse its discretion in concluding that the
plaintiffs failed to establish they would suffer irreparable
harm absent a preliminary injunction.
C.
The third factor we must consider is whether substantial
harm to others will occur if the injunction is granted. As
to the third factor of the preliminary injunction test the
district court concluded that "on balance, the court
would side with the plaintiffs on this prong." Like the
second factor, there is conflicting evidence on the record
as to whether others would be harmed if the plaintiffs'
motion for a preliminary injunction was granted. On the
one hand, Amgen asserts several harms that it would
face if a preliminary injunction was awarded, including:
(1) exposing Amgen to future civil liability; (2)
undermining Amgen's role as the sponsor of clinical
trials under federal regulations requiring Amgen to
terminate trials found to present unreasonable and
significant risk to patients. On the other hand, these
concerns are at least partially obviated by the plaintiffs'
assertions that they will assume all risks of taking GDNF
and the fact that the FDA informed Amgen that it
would permit compassionate use of Amgen. Given that
there is conflicting evidence in the record, we conclude
that the district court did not abuse it discretion in
finding that this factor weighed in the plaintiffs' favor.
D.
The final factor is whether the public interest would be
served by granting 
[443 F.3d 553]
 the plaintiffs' motion
for a preliminary injunction. Before the district court,
the plaintiffs asserted that the public interest weighed in
favor of granting the preliminary injunction because it
should be physicians (who in this case the record
suggests were in favor of compassionate use of GDNF)
who decide whether a drug should be given to their
patients and not pharmaceutical companies. The
plaintiffs also claimed that a denial of their motion for
an injunction would cause them unnecessary suffering
thereby disrespecting human subjects and deterring
other patients from participating in clinical trials. In
response, Amgen claimed that forcing them to provide
GDNF to the plaintiffs is contrary to the FDA's
regulatory scheme and that it is up to the FDA, and not
doctors or their patients, to determine whether a drug is
safe and effective. The district court found that public
interest was not served by granting an injunction in this
case.
The district court's opinion made several insightful
points regarding this prong. The district court
acknowledged that there may be some deterrent concern
as to patient participation in clinical trials if the plaintiffs
are not provided with compassionate use of GDNF. The
district court was quick to point out, however, that
granting the plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary
injunction could also deter pharmaceutical companies
from sponsoring clinical trials as clinical trial sponsors
might be required to continue to produce and distribute
a drug they believed to be dangerous. Additionally, the
plaintiffs' claim that physicians should be the sole arbiter
of patient care wholly undermines the purpose and
value of the FDA. The public has a strong interest in
ensuring that the FDA rather individual doctors has the
power to decide what drugs meet baseline levels of
safety and efficacy. Thus, the district court did not abuse
its discretion by concluding that the public interest
would not be served by granting the plaintiffs' motion
for preliminary injunction.
III.
Based on the analysis above, the district court did not
abuse its discretion in the denying the plaintiffs' motion
for a preliminary injunction. We therefore AFFIRM the
district court's ruling.