Abbott Laboratories and Abbott Laboratories
International Company (collectively "Abbott" in the
singular) has brought this four-count diversity action
challenging the refusal by its insurer, Granite State
Insurance Company ("Granite"), to indemnify Abbott
for certain insured losses:
1. Count I is a contractual claim for the amount due on the
insurance policy.
2. Count II is based on Illinois Insurance Code § 155 ("Section
155"), Ill.Rev. Stat. ch. 73, § 767, which permits certain
extraordinary costs to be taxed against an insurer that vexatiously
and unreasonably refuses to pay: attorneys' fees plus an additional
amount not to exceed any of the three ceiling amounts prescribed
in Section 155.
3. Count III purports to be a tort claim seeking compensatory and
punitive damages for Granite's wilful refusal to pay — a breach of its
duty of good faith and fair dealing towards insureds.
4. Count IV characterizes Granite's assertedly vexatious and
unreasonable refusal to pay as an "improper claims practice"
proscribed by Illinois Insurance Code § 154.6 ("Section 154.6"),
Ill.Rev. Stat. ch. 73, § 766.6, and seeks punitive damages under that
provision.
Granite has now moved to dismiss Counts III and IV for
failure to state a claim. For the reasons stated in this
memorandum opinion and order, its motion is granted.
Count III
Granite contends Section 1551 has displaced the
common law tort remedy for vexatious delay asserted in
Count III. As this Court explained in Evaluation
Systems, Inc. v. Aetna Life Insurance Co., 555 F.Supp.
116, 120 (N.D.Ill.1982), the Illinois Appellate Courts are
sharply divided on that issue:
Without even addressing the preemptive implications of the
statutory remedy, the Fifth District Appellate Court recognized
[573 F.Supp. 195] an independent tort action against insurers for
breach of their implied duty of good faith and fair dealing.
Ledingham v. Blue Cross Plan for Hospital Care, 29 Ill.App.3d 339,
330 N.E.2d 540 (5th Dist.1975). Ledingham has had a mixed
reception in the other Illinois Appellate districts. Both the First and
Third Districts have disapproved of Ledingham, concluding the
original Section 155 foreclosed any judicial enhancement (via
common law tort remedy) of recovery for vexatious delay. Tobolt v.
Allstate Insurance Co., 75 Ill.App.3d 57 [30 Ill.Dec. 824], 393
N.E.2d 1171 (1st Dist.1979); Debolt v. Mutual of Omaha, 56
Ill.App.3d 111 [13 Ill.Dec. 656], 371 N.E.2d 373 (3d Dist.1978).
Tobolt also found the 1977 amendment to Section 155 (its current
version) also manifested a legislative intent to preempt the field.
However the Fourth District has endorsed the availability of
Ledingham's tort remedy in cases to which the amended Section
155 cannot be retroactively applied (it has not yet ruled whether the
present Section 155 has preemptive effect). Lynch v. Mid-America
Fire & Marine, 94 Ill.App.3d 21 [49 Ill.Dec. 567], 418 N.E.2d 421
(4th Dist.1981). And the Second District has said a tort remedy for
compensatory damages may lie despite Section 155. Hoffman v.
Allstate Insurance Co., 85 Ill.App.3d 631 [40 Ill.Dec. 925], 407
N.E.2d 156 (2d Dist.1980).
Employing the "Supreme Court-predictive" approach to
the Erie problem posed by that split of authority, this
Court's colleague Judge Marshall recently concluded
Section 155 did not preempt the Ledingham tort. Kelly
v. Stratton, 552 F.Supp. 641 (N.D.Ill.1982). However,
for the reasons expounded at length in Commercial
Discount Corp. v. King, 552 F.Supp. 841, 847-52
(N.D.Ill.1982), this Court perceives its Erie obligations
differently. In this Court's view Erie (as amplified in
Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Electric Manufacturing Co., 313
U.S. 487, 496, 61 S.Ct. 1020, 1021, 85 L.Ed. 1477 (1941))
demands adherence to the Illinois "internal" choice of
law rule that binds a state trial court to the decisions of
the Appellate Court in its own district when the
Appellate Courts diverge. In this case, this Court sits in
the same position as a Cook County Circuit Judge in the
First Appellate District, for the Illinois venue statute (Ill.
Rev.Stat. ch. 110, § 2-101) would have permitted Abbott
to sue Granite (a foreign corporation) in Cook County.2
Consequently the position taken by the First Appellate
District in Tobolt is dispositive here: Section 155
preempts any tort remedy for vexatious and
unreasonable refusal to pay insurance proceeds. Count
III must therefore be dismissed.
Count IV
Tobolt, 75 Ill.App.3d at 71, 30 Ill. Dec. at 834, 393
N.E.2d at 1181 also spells the demise of Count IV by
refusing to find any private right of action for violations
of Section 154.6:
Plaintiffs cite the provisions of section 154.6 and its predecessor
(Ill.Rev.Stat. 1977, ch. 73, par. 766.6), defining an improper claims
practice as
(d) not attempting in good faith to effectuate prompt, fair and
equitable settlement of claims submitted in which liability has
become reasonably clear,
as showing that the legislature by it has expressly ratified the cause
of action [for the insurer's breach of its duty to deal in good faith
with its insureds]. We disagree. That section is a definition section.
It provides no remedy. Section 155 does.
No other Illinois appellate court appears to have
addressed the issue. Under Erie principles that should
settle the matter in Granite's favor.
Abbott nonetheless urges an implied right of action is
maintainable under Sawyer Realty Group, Inc. v. Jarvis
Corp., 89 Ill.2d 379, 59 Ill.Dec. 905, 432 N.E.2d 849
(1982).[573 F.Supp. 196] On the contrary, proper
analysis of the Sawyer standard governing judicial
recognition of an implied right of action fortifies Tobolt
and defeats Abbott (89 Ill.2d at 386, 59 Ill.Dec. at 908,
432 N.E.2d at 852; emphasis added, citations omitted):
It is clear that it is not necessary to show a specific legislative intent
to create a private right of action. If there is no indication that the
remedies available are only those the legislature expressed in the
Act, then where it is consistent with the underlying purpose of the
Act and necessary to achieve the aim of the legislation, a private
right of action can be implied.... The court looks to the totality of
circumstances in endeavoring to discover legislative intent.
No doubt authorizing private suits under Section 154.6
would be "consistent with" its underlying purpose of
protecting insureds. But a private remedy is scarcely
"necessary" to further that purpose. As Tobolt indicated,
insureds can resort to Section 155 to redress any injury
flowing from the insurer's vexatious refusal to pay.
Section 155's ceilings on the penalty (a form of punitive
damages) assessed for vexatious conduct reflect the
Illinois General Assembly's judgment as to the necessary
insurer's incentive to refrain from such conduct. If
anything, such limitations on punitive damages militate
against a finding of legislative intent to permit private
actions under Section 154.6, for those constraints would
otherwise be rendered nugatory.3 Finally, Illinois
Insurance Code § 154.8, Ill.Rev.Stat. ch. 73, § 766.8,
empowers the Illinois Director of Insurance to issue
cease and desist orders to any insurer who commits any
"improper claims practice" enumerated in Section 154.6.
Appendix
Debates begin to grow tiresome even to the debaters (let
alone the audience) whenever the debaters begin to
repeat themselves.2 But so long as the ongoing efforts to
eliminate (or to impose significant curbs on) federal
diversity jurisdiction do not bear fruit, definition of the
federal courts' proper role in diversity cases remains
highly important. And when so ordinarily thoughtful a
jurist as this Court's colleague Prentice Marshall can fall
victim to what this Court sees as flawed analysis in this
area, this Court may perhaps be pardoned a further brief
response. This Appendix will not deal chapter and verse
with Judge Marshall's Roberts opinion, for a few salient
points (supplementing this Court's Commercial
Discount discussion) should suffice.
As a preliminary matter, this Court is of course keenly
mindful that Erie v. Tompkins may forcefully be argued
to undercut the Supremacy Clause. It does reduce the
independent judging function of federal courts
(including the Supreme Court) in diversity cases — the
obligation to decide "cases" and "controversies" — to the
task of slavish adherence to state court doctrine. But
because this Court "writ[es] on [573 F.Supp. 197] the
shores of Lake Michigan rather than the banks of the
Potomac," Erie and its progeny must be followed. What
does that mean to the litigant?
Any proper response to that inquiry requires answering
just why federal courts are obliged under Erie to apply
state substantive law in disputes between diversity-ofcitizenship
adversaries. Erie itself supplies the answer
(304 U.S. at 74-75, 58 S.Ct. at 820-821):
Diversity of citizenship jurisdiction was conferred in order to
prevent apprehended discrimination in state courts against those
not citizens of the State. Swift v. Tyson introduced grave
discrimination by non-citizens against citizens. It made rights
enjoyed under the unwritten "general law" vary according to
whether enforcement was sought in the state or in the federal
court; and the privilege of selecting the court in which the right
should be determined was conferred upon the non-citizen. Thus,
the doctrine rendered impossible equal protection of the law. In
attempting to promote uniformity of law throughout the United
States, the doctrine had prevented uniformity in the administration
of the law of the State.
Accord, Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326 U.S. 99, 109,
65 S.Ct. 1464, 1470, 89 L.Ed. 2079 (1945):
The nub of the policy that underlies Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins is that
for the same transaction the accident of a suit by a non-resident
litigant in a federal court instead of in a State court a block away
should not lead to a substantially different result.
Exactly the same idea was put succinctly in Klaxon Co.
v. Stentor Electric Manufacturing Co., 313 U.S. 487,
496, 61 S.Ct. 1020, 1021, 85 L.Ed. 1477 (1941) (treating
choice-of-law rules as substantive, not procedural, for
Erie purposes):
Otherwise, the accident of diversity of citizenship would constantly
disturb equal administration of justice in coordinate state and
federal courts sitting side by side.
If that concept of "equal administration of justice" is to
have any meaning at all, it must mean the diversity
plaintiff or defendant in the federal court system is
required to be placed in as near a position as possible to
the state court plaintiff or defendant asserting a like
claim or defense.
From that perspective the most curious, and most
troublesome, aspect of Roberts lies in Judge Marshall's
total failure to discuss the Thorpe-Garcia dichotomy,
which under Erie and Klaxon is just as binding on us as
any other Illinois choice-of-law, or other substantive
law, rule. By what right may we federal judges ignore
that clear and binding directive as to which Appellate
Court decision to follow in case of conflict? Or is Judge
Marshall somehow exercising the "predictive" approach
sub silentio and deciding, despite any contrary
indications from any Illinois appellate court at any level,
that the Illinois Supreme Court would disapprove the
rules enunciated in Thorpe and Garcia?
That really ought to end the debate before it begins. It is
really not this Court's doctrine, but that of the Illinois
courts, with which Judge Marshall's analysis quarrels.
And one of the restraints Erie imposes [573 F.Supp. 198]
is to make such a federal quarrel with state rules of law
(in this case choice-of-law rules) impermissible.
Nonetheless, because Roberts has other doctrinal
disabilities, this Appendix will proceed to touch on a
few.
For the vast majority of Illinois litigants the trial court
(the Circuit Court) is the court of last resort. For the
remaining small minority the Illinois Appellate Court is
almost always the end of the litigation road. Only a
comparative handful of cases finds its way to decision by
the Illinois Supreme Court. Indeed even in the series of
Illinois Appellate Court cases that has generated the
specific split among Appellate Districts triggering
Roberts and this decision — though all five Districts
have spoken to the issue and despite extensive law
review comment highlighting the problem — more
than four years have elapsed since the split of authority
first manifested itself, without the Illinois Supreme
Court having settled the issue. In the meantime, if the
experience in the federal courts is any indication, many
litigants have had their rights determined under the
present regime. And for those in the state court system,
the "present regime" is precisely parallel to what a
comparable litigant would receive in this Court, not in
Judge Marshall's.
Roberts posits a few hypotheticals to buttress its result.
Those examples illustrate the possibility, in the Illinois
system, that future appellate courts may differ with the
existing appellate authority that, under Illinois internal
choice-of-law rules, the Illinois trial courts must
follow. That possibility of course exists (though neither
Judge Marshall nor this Court is omniscient, so that his
acting on that possibility poses a separate risk — if he is
wrong in his prediction — that the federal litigant may
get a different brand of justice than the Illinois courts
would in fact deliver, not only at the trial court level
commensurate with our own but at the Illinois
Appellate [573 F.Supp. 199] Court level as well! ). But
even granting the possibility of a future difference, what
Judge Marshall's approach does is to apply to every
present suitor in a diversity conflict-of-authority
situation a wholly different set of rules than the identical
suitor would get in the state system. And that disparate
treatment is given solely because — on the false
assumption that all cases go all the way to the top of the
state judicial ladder — the occasional litigant might
obtain a different result under the approach this Court
follows (adhering as it does to the Illinois rules
governing precedential value).
That universalist approach, exemplified by Roberts, is
the essence of forum-shopping. It is at war with the
reason Erie overturned a century of practice under Swift
v. Tyson. That is why Judge Marshall is simply wrong in
saying (Roberts, 568 F.Supp. at 539):
[W]e think that Commercial Discount begins with an erroneous
premise: that a [573 F.Supp. 200] federal court sitting in diversity
jurisdiction "must decide substantive questions in the same way that
a state trial judge counterpart sitting at the same location would."
That is not at all a premise, but rather a conclusion —
one dictated by the force of Erie and the mandate it
gives to follow the Thorpe-Garcia rules.
Of course it is stifling for a free-spirited federal judge to
be relegated to the position of a sounding board for state
law — for the federal judiciary to be imprisoned by what
we may view as the state law's inadequacies or injustices.
However neither that subliminal level of impatience nor
the kind of hypotheticals posed by Judge Marshall
provides a warrant for indulging in the Roberts
"solution."
Conclusion
Granite's motion to dismiss Counts III and IV is
granted.