Respondent Gissel trespassed upon land owned by the
State of Idaho and land owned by the United States
Forest Service and harvested wild rice off this land. The
land in question was "jointly" managed by the Idaho Fish
& Game Department and the United States Forest
Service for wildlife management purposes. The rice was
raised as cover habitat and feed for migratory water
fowl. The defendant was a former employee of the Fish
& Game Department who knew the purpose that the
wild rice served. Defendant trespassed on the land and
harvested the rice without any claim to or interest in the
rice. The state, upon discovering the taking, had the rice
seized pursuant to a valid search warrant. The
respondent was charged with trespass and taking
produce and was convicted in the magistrate court. On
appeal, the district court set aside the jury verdict against
the respondent upon the grounds of insufficient
evidence. However, the district court's reversal was itself
reversed on appeal by the Idaho Court of Appeals. State
v. Gissel, 105 Idaho 287, 668 P.2d 1108 (Ct.App.1983).
Nevertheless, on remand [727 P.2d 1158] the prosecutor
apparently did not desire to pursue the case further, and
the charges against the respondent were dropped.
Because the rice was perishable, it had been sold soon
after it was seized.
Gissel now brings an action for the tort of conversion
for one-half the value of the sold rice, claiming status as
a prior possessor of the rice and asserting superior rights
against the State of Idaho in that portion of the rice
harvested from the U.S. Forest Service land. Accepting
the fact that 50% of the crop was grown on United
States Forest Service land, the issue in this case is
whether one who has admittedly trespassed and taken
wild rice which does not belong to him can maintain an
action for conversion based on an alleged status as a
prior possessor. The wild rice was not abandoned, lost
or mislaid property, which would implicate certain rules
of law.1 Rather, it was wrongfully taken from the
owners.
As the majority opinion correctly points out, conversion
is "any distinct act of dominion wrongfully exerted over
another's personal property in denial or inconsistent
with his rights therein, such as the tortious taking of
another's chattels, or any wrongful exercise ... over
another's goods, depriving him of possession,
permanently or for an indefinite time." Klam v. Koppel,
63 Idaho 171, 118 P.2d 729 (1941) (emphasis added). In
order to constitute conversion, the "act of dominion"
exerted over another's property must be "wrongful," and
it must be "inconsistent with his [the claimant's] rights."
In this case the state's taking of possession was not
"wrongful"; rather, it was legally taken pursuant to a
valid search warrant. Furthermore, the taking pursuant
to the valid search warrant was not "inconsistent with
his rights therein," because, as the following authorities
demonstrate, Gissel has no "rights" in the wild rice.
Gissel claims the proceeds to the rice based solely on a
prior possession theory. As the majority opinion
correctly notes, Gissel was a trespasser who had no title
or claim to title. The district court, characterizing
Gissel's conduct as analogous to a "thief" at common
law, erroneously accepted Gissel's argument by ruling
that "[t]he possessory title of the thief is good against all
the world except the true owner or somebody acting on
behalf of the true owner as their agent or assignee." This
assertion is not supported by any legal citation. Prosser,
in discussing a "thief's" interest in allegedly converted
property, states: "[N]o court has ever allowed an
admitted ... thief without claim of right to recover and it
seems improbable that one ever will." Prosser & Keeton,
Law of Torts, ยง 15, p. 103 (1984).
Keeping in mind that Gissel's claim, as the trial court
described it, rests solely on a claim of prior possession
by a "thief,"
"[T]he essence of an action for conversion is the wrongful
deprivation of property from the person entitled to possession. A
party claiming a conversion must show (1) an unauthorized and
wrongful assumption of control, dominion, or ownership by a
person over the personalty of another; (2) his right in the property;
(3) his right to the immediate possession of the property, absolute
and unconditional; and (4) a demand for possession thereof." Kunde
v. Biddle, 41 Ill.App.3d 223, 353 N.E.2d 410, 412 (1976). (Citation
omitted.)
Gissel cannot meet these elements.
First, the state legally came into possession of the rice
pursuant to a valid search warrant. Accordingly, there
was no "unauthorized [727 P.2d 1159] and wrongful
assumption of control, dominion, or ownership [by the
state] over the personalty of another." (Emphasis
added.)
The second element also is not met by Gissel. The only
claim that Gissel can demonstrate in the rice is that of
one who "knowingly" and "wrongfully" took property
which did not belong to him. Gissel's tenuous claim to
the rice rests only on the status of prior possession by a
"thief." When the rice was taken from Gissel pursuant
to the valid search warrant, Gissel lawfully lost
possession, which was his only claim to the property.
Neither Gissel, the district court, nor the majority
opinion herein point out at what point in time the
state's alleged act of conversion took place. No
conversion could have occurred when possession was
taken from Gissel because that taking was pursuant to a
valid search warrant, and therefore was not "an
unauthorized and wrongful assumption of control,
dominion or ownership...." Klam v. Koppel, 63 Idaho
171, 118 P.2d 729 (1941). The subsequent disposition of
the perishable property to prevent spoiling could not
have been a conversion against Gissel because, at that
time, he had neither possession nor any legal claim to
the rice. Accordingly, Gissel cannot meet the second
requirement.2
Third, Gissel cannot demonstrate any right to
immediate possession of the rice. One must be entitled
to immediate possession of a chattel before he can
successfully contend that the actor's failure to yield
possession constitutes "conversion." Artman v. Ray, 263
Or. 529, 501 P.2d 63 (1972). Gissel has not
demonstrated a right to immediate possession of the
rice.
A "thief" is not entitled to bring an action for
conversion. "It is elementary that one who steals or
converts property to his own use does not thereby
acquire title thereto." Stewart v. People, 193 Colo. 399,
566 P.2d 1069, 1070 (1977). The California case of
Suttori v. Peckham, 48 Cal.App. 88, 191 P. 960 (1917), is
on point. In that case, the plaintiff Suttori was captain of
a fishing boat operating off the California coast. The
plaintiff was arrested at sea by a deputy sheriff for
fishing with a net within three miles of the coastline, in
contravention of a California statute which prohibited
this. The defendant Peckham was the magistrate who
charged Suttori and who ordered the fish seized during
the arrest and distributed to the poor. When the charges
were later dropped, Suttori brought suit claiming
conversion. At the subsequent civil trial, Suttori lost and
an appeal followed.
The appeals court affirmed the district court, holding
that during the trial there was sufficient evidence
produced to prove that Suttori had taken the fish within
the three mile limit. The court stated:
"This fact was sufficient to justify the court in finding that the
plaintiff was not the owner nor entitled to the possession of the
fish, if the taking of the fish with a net and within three miles of
that island was prohibited by law and was a criminal act." 191 P. at
961.
The court went on to conclude that:
"It should need no citation of authorities to establish the
proposition that no person can acquire title or right of possession to
property of the state by the act of taking possession thereof illegally.
But the plaintiff cannot maintain this action if at the time of the
alleged conversion he had neither ownership nor right of
possession in the goods alleged to have been converted. Hilmer v.
Hills, 138 Cal. 134, 70 P. 1080." 191 P. at 961.
[727 P.2d 1160] It is clear that neither theft nor illegal
taking of property can give rise to the type of "property
right" required to maintain an action for the tort of
conversion. See also Covington v. Lewis et al., 83
Cal.App. 8, 256 P. 277, 278 (1927) (citing Suttori and
holding that a plaintiff cannot maintain an action for
conversion unless he is entitled to possession). The rule
adopted by Suttori extends back through the years
when, in 1859, a Georgia court held that a plaintiff
cannot maintain a conversion action on the strength of
a fraudulent or void title. Mulligan v. Baily, 28 Ga. 507,
510 (1859).
Finally, Gissel did not make out any claim of right to the
rice, but only a claim of a "thief." The rule of law is that
Gissel must recover on the strength of his own title,
without regard to the weakness of that of his adversary.
Denver Livestock Com. Co. v. Lee, 18 F.2d 11 (8th
Cir.1927), rehearing denied20 F.2d 531 (8th Cir. 1927);
Union Stock Yard & Transit Co. v. Mallory, Son &
Zimmerman Co., 157 Ill. 554, 41 N.E. 888 (1895); Baker
v. Seavey, 163 Mass. 522, 40 N.E. 863 (Mass.1895);
Dorrell v. Clark, 90 Mont. 585, 4 P.2d 712 (1931);
Sussman v. Mentzer, 76 P.2d 595 (Wash.1938); Lee On
v. Long, 37 Cal.2d 499, 234 P.2d 9 (1951); Malchow v.
Boise Cascade Corp., 20 Wn.App. 258, 578 P.2d 1337
(Wash.App.1978). The majority opinion comes to its
conclusion based on what it sees as a weakness in the
state's claim to the rice, not based on Gissel's ability to
bring a prima facie case of conversion. Gissel has no
claim of right,3 and as discussed above cannot meet the
elements required of a plaintiff in a conversion action.
Since Gissel's claim of prior possession rests solely on
the asportation of the wild rice, neither policy nor
concepts of justice support such a claim under these
facts. First, the policy behind protecting prior possessors
is to ensure the ultimate protection of the true owner's
interest. Waugh v. University of Hawaii, supra.4
Protection of Gissel does not protect the U.S. Forest
Service interest in wildlife management, but only
protects the interest of Gissel.
[727 P.2d 1161] The district court and the majority
sidestep defendant's Exhibit "B", which is a
memorandum of understanding between the Fish &
Game Department and the Forest Service, and
Stipulation No. 2, which states:
"2. The U.S. Forest Service, claiming an interest in approximately
one-half of the wild rice, refuses to release its interest to other than
the Idaho Department of Fish and Game." (Emphasis added.)
These documents demonstrate, if nothing else, where
the interests of the true owner, the Forest Service, lie,
and that is with the state and not with Gissel. To protect
Gissel is to condone the actions of a "thief." The law
should not reward theft.