This civil action is before the court on Third-Party
Defendant's motion to dismiss the third-party action for
lack of supplemental jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 
§
1367(b), the Judicial Improvements Act of 1990, Title
III, 
§
 310(a).
FACTS
On March 17, 1993, contractor Guaranteed Systems,
Inc., a North Carolina corporation, filed a state court
action ("original action") in the Superior Court Division
of the General Court of Justice, Rockingham County,
North Carolina, against American National Can
Company ("National Can"), a Delaware corporation,
alleging that National Can had failed to pay Guaranteed
Systems for construction work on a National Can
facility in Forest Park, Georgia. National Can removed
the original action to federal court pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
§§
 1441(a) and 1446 because the federal court had
original jurisdiction over the original action under 28
U.S.C. 
§
 1332(a). National Can then answered and filed
a counterclaim against Guaranteed Systems alleging,
inter alia, that Guaranteed Systems had been negligent
in the performance of its construction work on the
National Can facility. On June 30, 1993, Guaranteed
Systems, defending against National Can's counterclaim,
answered and, pursuant to Rule 14(b) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure, filed a third-party action
against sub-contractor R.K. Elite-HydroVac Services,
Inc. ("HydroVac"), alleging claims for indemnity and
contribution for any amount that may be determined to
be owed to National Can by Guaranteed Systems as a
result of the counterclaim initiated by National Can.
DISCUSSION
Federal courts may exercise original jurisdiction
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 
§
 1331 over cases involving a
federal question or pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 
§
 1332 ("the
diversity statute") over cases involving citizens of
different states, that is, those cases in which the parties
are "diverse." They may also exercise supplemental
jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 
§
 1367 over all other
claims that form part of the same case or controversy as
the action within their original jurisdiction, unless that
action is within their jurisdiction solely on the basis of
the diversity statute. If that action is within their
jurisdiction solely on the basis of diversity, federal courts
may not exercise supplemental jurisdiction over certain
claims, including claims by plaintiffs against persons
made parties under Rule 14 of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure, when so doing would be inconsistent with
the jurisdictional requirements of 28 U.S.C. 
§
 1332, for
instance, when the plaintiff and the other party are non-
diverse.
In the case before the court, it is undisputed that the
court's jurisdiction over 
[842 F.Supp. 857]
 the original
action is founded solely on the diversity statute. It is also
undisputed that the third-party action involves a claim
that is so related to the original action that it forms "part
of the same case or controversy." 28 U.S.C. 
§
 1367(a).
The disputed issue is whether the court may exercise
supplemental jurisdiction over the third-party state law
claim between Plaintiff and Third-Party Defendant,
whom Plaintiff, defending the counterclaim, has
impleaded for indemnity or contribution in accordance
with Rule 14(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,
when Plaintiff and Third-Party Defendant are
nondiverse parties.
The terms of 28 U.S.C. 
§
 1367(b) prohibit the court
from exercising jurisdiction over Plaintiff's third-party
claim. Guaranteed Systems is clearly a plaintiff in a
diversity suit asserting a claim against a non-diverse
third-party defendant made a party under Rule 14.
Were it not for the enactment of Section 1367,
however, the rationale of the decision in Owen Equip. &
Erection Co. v. Kroger, 437 U.S. 365, 98 S.Ct. 2396, 57
L.Ed.2d 274 (1978), could allow the court to exercise
jurisdiction under these circumstances. Owen prohibits
the court only from exercising jurisdiction over a state
law claim by a plaintiff against a non-diverse third-party
defendant impleaded for indemnity purposes by a
defendant. The principal rationale of both Owen and
Section 1367(b) is to prevent a plaintiff from "evad[ing]
the jurisdictional requirements of 28 U.S.C. 
§
 1332 by
the simple expedient of naming initially only those
defendants whose joinder satisfies section 1332's
requirements and later adding claims not within original
federal jurisdiction against other defendants who have
intervened or been joined on a supplemental basis."
H.R.Rep. No. 101-734, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. (1990),
reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6802, 6860, 6875. That
rationale is inapplicable to the third-party action in this
case.
The third-party action in this case corresponds most
closely to the typical ancillary impleader claim the
Supreme Court used as a benchmark to distinguish the
claim the Owen plaintiff attempted to assert. In Owen,
the Supreme Court noted that "in determining whether
jurisdiction over a nonfederal claim exists, the context in
which the nonfederal claim is asserted is crucial." Owen,
437 U.S. at 375-76, 98 S.Ct. at 2403-04. The Court went
on to say that the claim at issue in that case was "simply
not ancillary to the federal one in the same sense that,
for example, the impleader by a defendant of a third-
party defendant always is." Id. at 376, 98 S.Ct. at 2404
(emphasis added). An impleader claim has "logical
dependence" on the original claim; it is not a "new and
independent" claim. Id. Furthermore, Plaintiff here did
not "voluntarily cho[o]se to bring suit upon a state-law
claim in a federal court," as did the plaintiff in Owen.
437 U.S. at 376, 98 S.Ct. at 2404. Rather, Plaintiff's case
was removed to federal court in contravention of
Plaintiff's original forum choice.
Essentially, Plaintiff acts as a defendant to National
Can's claim when it impleads HydroVac for indemnity.
Plaintiff had no logical reason to join HydroVac in the
original action because HydroVac's alleged liability to
Plaintiff is contingent on Plaintiff's liability to National
Can on their counterclaim. Plaintiff cannot be said to
have tried to evade the requirements of the diversity
statute when it first filed in state court and then
impleaded HydroVac only in response to National Can's
counterclaim. Plaintiff desires simply and sensibly to
avoid the piecemeal and potentially adverse resolution
of the liabilities in question.
Before the enactment of Section 1367's supplemental
jurisdiction provisions, when cases like the one before
the court arose, a court's "decision ultimately [was]
based on a weighing of the desire to preserve the
integrity of constitutionally based jurisdictional
limitations against the desire to dispose of all disputes
arising from one set of facts in one action." 6 Charles A.
Wright et al., Federal Practice and Procedure 
§
 1444 at
319 (2d ed. 1990). If it were not bound by the plain
terms of the statute, the court would be swayed by the
interests of justice and efficiency to construe Plaintiff's
claim as a claim by a defendant against a person made
party under Rule 14 rather than a claim by a plaintiff,
and thus to allow it to proceed under 28 U.S.C. 
§
1367(b). The court believes, 
[842 F.Supp. 858]
 however,
that such a construction would reach beyond the limits
of Section 1367(b). The jurisdiction of the federal courts
is limited not only by Article III of the Constitution, but
also by Acts of Congress. See Owen, 437 U.S. at 371-72,
98 S.Ct. at 2401-02. The court therefore will grant
Third-Party Defendant's motion to dismiss.
An order in accordance with this memorandum opinion
shall be entered contemporaneously herewith.