This is an action to recover the possession of a tract of
land, of the alleged value of $15,000, situated in the State
of Oregon. The plaintiff asserts title to the premises by a
patent of the United States issued to him in 1866, under
the act of Congress of Sept. 27, 1850, usually known as
the Donation Law of Oregon. The defendant claims to
have acquired the premises under a sheriff's deed, made
upon a sale of the property on execution issued upon a
judgment recovered against the plaintiff in one of the
circuit courts of the State. The case turns upon the
validity of this judgment.
It appears from the record that the judgment was
rendered in February, 1866, in favor of J.H. Mitchell, for
less than $300, including costs, in an action brought by
him upon a demand for services as an attorney; that, at
the time the action was commenced and the judgment
rendered, the defendant therein, the plaintiff here, was a
non-resident of the State [95 U.S. 720] that he was not
personally served with process, and did not appear
therein; and that the judgment was entered upon his
default in not answering the complaint, upon a
constructive service of summons by publication.
The Code of Oregon provides for such service when an
action is brought against a non-resident and absent
defendant, who has property within the State. It also
provides, where the action is for the recovery of money
or damages, for the attachment of the property of the
non-resident. And it also declares that no natural person
is subject to the jurisdiction of a court of the State,
"unless he appear in the court, or be found within the
State, or be a resident thereof, or have property therein;
and, in the last case, only to the extent of such property
at the time the jurisdiction attached." Construing this
latter provision to mean, that, in an action for money or
damages where a defendant does not appear in the
court, and is not found within the State, and is not a
resident thereof, but has property therein, the
jurisdiction of the court extends only over such
property, the declaration expresses a principle of
general, if not universal, law. The authority of every
tribunal is necessarily restricted by the territorial limits
of the State in which it is established. Any attempt to
exercise authority beyond those limits would be deemed
in every other forum, as has been said by this court, an
illegitimate assumption of power, and be resisted as
mere abuse. D'Arcy v. Ketchum et al., 11 How. 165. In
the case against the plaintiff, the property here in
controversy sold under the judgment rendered was not
attached, nor in any way brought under the jurisdiction
of the court. Its first connection with the case was
caused by a levy of the execution. It was not, therefore,
disposed of pursuant to any adjudication, but only in
enforcement of a personal judgment, having no relation
to the property, rendered against a non-resident
without service of process upon him in the action, or his
appearance therein. The court below did not consider
that an attachment of the property was essential to its
jurisdiction or to the validity of the sale, but held that
the judgment was invalid from defects in the affidavit
upon which the order of publication was obtained, and
in the affidavit by which the publication was proved.
[95 U.S. 721] There is some difference of opinion among
the members of this court as to the rulings upon these
alleged defects. The majority are of opinion that
inasmuch as the statute requires, for an order of
publication, that certain facts shall appear by affidavit to
the satisfaction of the court or judge, defects in such
affidavit can only be taken advantage of on appeal, or by
some other direct proceeding, and cannot be urged to
impeach the judgment collaterally. The majority of the
court are also of opinion that the provision of the statute
requiring proof of the publication in a newspaper to be
made by the "affidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or
his principal clerk," is satisfied when the affidavit is
made by the editor of the paper. The term "printer," in
their judgment, is there used not to indicate the person
who sets up the type, — he does not usually have a
foreman or clerks, — it is rather used as synonymous
with publisher. The Supreme Court of New York so
held in one case; observing that, for the purpose of
making the required proof, publishers were "within the
spirit of the statute." Bunce v. Reed, 16 Barb. (N.Y.) 350.
And, following this ruling, the Supreme Court of
California held that an affidavit made by a "publisher
and proprietor" was sufficient. Sharp v. Daugney, 33
Cal. 512. The term "editor," as used when the statute of
New York was passed, from which the Oregon law is
borrowed, usually included not only the person who
wrote or selected the articles for publication, but the
person who published the paper and put it into
circulation. Webster, in an early edition of his
Dictionary, gives as one of the definitions of an editor, a
person "who superintends the publication of a
newspaper." It is principally since that time that the
business of an editor has been separated from that of a
publisher and printer, and has become an independent
profession.
If, therefore, we were confined to the rulings of the
court below upon the defects in the affidavits
mentioned, we should be unable to uphold its decision.
But it was also contended in that court, and is insisted
upon here, that the judgment in the State court against
the plaintiff was void for want of personal service of
process on him, or of his appearance in the action in
which it was rendered, and that the premises in
controversy could not be subjected to the payment of
the demand [95 U.S. 722] of a resident creditor except by
a proceeding in rem; that is, by a direct proceeding
against the property for that purpose. If these positions
are sound, the ruling of the Circuit Court as to the
invalidity of that judgment must be sustained,
notwithstanding our dissent from the reasons upon
which it was made. And that they are sound would seem
to follow from two well-established principles of public
law respecting the jurisdiction of an independent State
over persons and property. The several States of the
Union are not, it is true, in every respect independent,
many of the rights and powers which originally
belonged to them being now vested in the government
created by the Constitution. But, except as restrained
and limited by that instrument, they possess and exercise
the authority of independent States, and the principles
of public law to which we have referred are applicable to
them. One of these principles is, that every State
possesses exclusive jurisdiction and sovereignty over
persons and property within its territory. As a
consequence, every State has the power to determine for
itself the civil status and capacities of its inhabitants; to
prescribe the subjects upon which they may contract,
the forms and solemnities with which their contracts
shall be executed, the rights and obligations arising from
them, and the mode in which their validity shall be
determined and their obligations enforced; and also to
regulate the manner and conditions upon which
property situated within such territory, both personal
and real, may be acquired, enjoyed, and transferred. The
other principle of public law referred to follows from
the one mentioned; that is, that no State can exercise
direct jurisdiction and authority over persons or
property without its territory. Story, Confl. Laws, c. 2;
Wheat. Int. Law, pt. 2, c. 2. The several States are of
equal dignity and authority, and the independence of
one implies the exclusion of power from all others. And
so it is laid down by jurists, as an elementary principle,
that the laws of one State have no operation outside of
its territory, except so far as is allowed by comity; and
that no tribunal established by it can extend its process
beyond that territory so as to subject either persons or
property to its decisions. "Any exertion of authority of
this sort beyond this limit," says Story, "is a mere nullity,
and incapable of binding [95 U.S. 723] such persons or
property in any other tribunals." Story, Confl. Laws,
sect. 539.
But as contracts made in one State may be enforceable
only in another State, and property may be held by nonresidents,
the exercise of the jurisdiction which every
State is admitted to possess over persons and property
within its own territory will often affect persons and
property without it. To any influence exerted in this
way by a State affecting persons resident or property
situated elsewhere, no objection can be justly taken;
whilst any direct exertion of authority upon them, in an
attempt to give ex-territorial operation to its laws, or to
enforce an ex-territorial jurisdiction by its tribunals,
would be deemed an encroachment upon the
independence of the State in which the persons are
domiciled or the property is situated, and be resisted as
usurpation.
Thus the State, through its tribunals, may compel
persons domiciled within its limits to execute, in
pursuance of their contracts respecting property
elsewhere situated, instruments in such form and with
such solemnities as to transfer the title, so far as such
formalities can be complied with; and the exercise of
this jurisdiction in no manner interferes with the
supreme control over the property by the State within
which it is situated. Penn v. Lord Baltimore, 1 Ves. 444;
Massie v. Watts, 6 Cranch, 148; Watkins v. Holman, 16
Pet. 25; Corbett v. Nutt, 10 Wall. 464.
So the State, through its tribunals, may subject property
situated within its limits owned by non-residents to the
payment of the demand of its own citizens against them;
and the exercise of this jurisdiction in no respect
infringes upon the sovereignty of the State where the
owners are domiciled. Every State owes protection to its
own citizens; and, when non-residents deal with them,
it is a legitimate and just exercise of authority to hold
and appropriate any property owned by such nonresidents
to satisfy the claims of its citizens. It is in
virtue of the State's jurisdiction over the property of the
non-resident situated within its limits that its tribunals
can inquire into that non-resident's obligations to its
own citizens, and the inquiry can then be carried only to
the extent necessary to control the disposition of the
property. If the non-resident [95 U.S. 724] have no
property in the State, there is nothing upon which the
tribunals can adjudicate.
These views are not new. They have been frequently
expressed, with more or less distinctness, in opinions of
eminent judges, and have been carried into adjudications
in numerous cases. Thus, in Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mas. 35,
Mr. Justice Story said: —
"Where a party is within a territory, he may justly be
subjected to its process, and bound personally by the
judgment pronounced on such process against him.
Where he is not within such territory, and is not
personally subject to its laws, if, on account of his
supposed or actual property being within the territory,
process by the local laws may, by attachment, go to
compel his appearance, and for his default to appear
judgment may be pronounced against him, such a
judgment must, upon general principles, be deemed only
to bind him to the extent of such property, and cannot
have the effect of a conclusive judgment in personam,
for the plain reason, that, except so far as the property is
concerned, it is a judgment coram non judice."
And in Boswell's Lessee v. Otis, 9 How. 336, where the
title of the plaintiff in ejectment was acquired on a
sheriff's sale, under a money decree rendered upon
publication of notice against non-residents, in a suit
brought to enforce a contract relating to land, Mr.
Justice McLean said: —
"Jurisdiction is acquired in one of two modes: first, as
against the person of the defendant by the service of
process; or, secondly, by a procedure against the
property of the defendant within the jurisdiction of the
court. In the latter case, the defendant is not personally
bound by the judgment beyond the property in question.
And it is immaterial whether the proceeding against the
property be by an attachment or bill in chancery. It must
be substantially a proceeding in rem."
These citations are not made as authoritative
expositions of the law; for the language was perhaps not
essential to the decision of the cases in which it was
used, but as expressions of the opinion of eminent
jurists. But in Cooper v. Reynolds, reported in the 10th
of Wallace, it was essential to the disposition of the case
to declare the effect of a personal action against an
absent party, without the jurisdiction of the court, not
served [95 U.S. 725] with process or voluntarily
submitting to the tribunal, when it was sought to subject
his property to the payment of a demand of a resident
complainant; and in the opinion there delivered we have
a clear statement of the law as to the efficacy of such
actions, and the jurisdiction of the court over them. In
that case, the action was for damages for alleged false
imprisonment of the plaintiff; and, upon his affidavit
that the defendants had fled from the State, or had
absconded or concealed themselves so that the ordinary
process of law could not reach them, a writ of
attachment was sued out against their property.
Publication was ordered by the court, giving notice to
them to appear and plead, answer or demur, or that the
action would be taken as confessed and proceeded in ex
parte as to them. Publication was had; but they made
default, and judgment was entered against them, and the
attached property was sold under it. The purchaser
having been put into possession of the property, the
original owner brought ejectment for its recovery. In
considering the character of the proceeding, the court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Miller, said: —
"Its essential purpose or nature is to establish, by the
judgment of the court, a demand or claim against the
defendant, and subject his property lying within the
territorial jurisdiction of the court to the payment of
that demand. But the plaintiff is met at the
commencement of his proceedings by the fact that the
defendant is not within the territorial jurisdiction, and
cannot be served with any process by which he can be
brought personally within the power of the court. For
this difficulty the statute has provided a remedy. It says
that, upon affidavit being made of that fact, a writ of
attachment may be issued and levied on any of the
defendant's property, and a publication may be made
warning him to appear; and that thereafter the court
may proceed in the case, whether he appears or not. If
the defendant appears, the cause becomes mainly a suit
in personam, with the added incident, that the property
attached remains liable, under the control of the court,
to answer to any demand which may be established
against the defendant by the final judgment of the court.
But if there is no appearance of the defendant, and no
service of process on him, the case becomes in its
essential nature a proceeding in rem, the only effect of
which is to subject the property attached to the payment
of the demand which the court may find to be due to the
plaintiff. That such is [95 U.S. 726] the nature of this
proceeding in this latter class of cases is clearly evinced
by two well-established propositions: first, the judgment
of the court, though in form a personal judgment
against the defendant, has no effect beyond the property
attached in that suit. No general execution can be issued
for any balance unpaid after the attached property is
exhausted. No suit can be maintained on such a
judgment in the same court, or in any other; nor can it
be used as evidence in any other proceeding not
affecting the attached property; nor could the costs in
that proceeding be collected of defendant out of any
other property than that attached in the suit. Second, the
court, in such a suit, cannot proceed, unless the officer
finds some property of defendant on which to levy the
writ of attachment. A return that none can be found is
the end of the case, and deprives the court of further
jurisdiction, though the publication may have been duly
made and proven in court."
The fact that the defendants in that case had fled from
the State, or had concealed themselves, so as not to be
reached by the ordinary process of the court, and were
not non-residents, was not made a point in the decision.
The opinion treated them as being without the
territorial jurisdiction of the court; and the grounds and
extent of its authority over persons and property thus
situated were considered, when they were not brought
within its jurisdiction by personal service or voluntary
appearance.
The writer of the present opinion considered that some
of the objections to the preliminary proceedings in the
attachment suit were well taken, and therefore dissented
from the judgment of the court; but to the doctrine
declared in the above citation he agreed, and he may
add, that it received the approval of all the judges. It is
the only doctrine consistent with proper protection to
citizens of other States. If, without personal service,
judgments in personam, obtained ex parte against nonresidents
and absent parties, upon mere publication of
process, which, in the great majority of cases, would
never be seen by the parties interested, could be upheld
and enforced, they would be the constant instruments of
fraud and oppression. Judgments for all sorts of claims
upon contracts and for torts, real or pretended, would
be thus obtained, under which property would be seized,
when the evidence of the transactions upon [95 U.S.
727] which they were founded, if they ever had any
existence, had perished.
Substituted service by publication, or in any other
authorized form, may be sufficient to inform parties of
the object of proceedings taken where property is once
brought under the control of the court by seizure or
some equivalent act. The law assumes that property is
always in the possession of its owner, in person or by
agent; and it proceeds upon the theory that its seizure
will inform him, not only that it is taken into the
custody of the court, but that he must look to any
proceedings authorized by law upon such seizure for its
condemnation and sale. Such service may also be
sufficient in cases where the object of the action is to
reach and dispose of property in the State, or of some
interest therein, by enforcing a contract or a lien
respecting the same, or to partition it among different
owners, or, when the public is a party, to condemn and
appropriate it for a public purpose. In other words, such
service may answer in all actions which are substantially
proceedings in rem. But where the entire object of the
action is to determine the personal rights and
obligations of the defendants, that is, where the suit is
merely in personam, constructive service in this form
upon a non-resident is ineffectual for any purpose.
Process from the tribunals of one State cannot run into
another State, and summon parties there domiciled to
leave its territory and respond to proceedings against
them. Publication of process or notice within the State
where the tribunal sits cannot create any greater
obligation upon the non-resident to appear. Process sent
to him out of the State, and process published within it,
are equally unavailing in proceedings to establish his
personal liability.
The want of authority of the tribunals of a State to
adjudicate upon the obligations of non-residents, where
they have no property within its limits, is not denied by
the court below: but the position is assumed, that, where
they have property within the State, it is immaterial
whether the property is in the first instance brought
under the control of the court by attachment or some
other equivalent act, and afterwards applied by its
judgment to the satisfaction of demands against its
owner; or such demands be first established in a
personal action, and [95 U.S. 728] the property of the
non-resident be afterwards seized and sold on
execution. But the answer to this position has already
been given in the statement, that the jurisdiction of the
court to inquire into and determine his obligations at all
is only incidental to its jurisdiction over the property. Its
jurisdiction in that respect cannot be made to depend
upon facts to be ascertained after it has tried the cause
and rendered the judgment. If the judgment be
previously void, it will not become valid by the
subsequent discovery of property of the defendant, or by
his subsequent acquisition of it. The judgment if void
when rendered, will always remain void: it cannot
occupy the doubtful position of being valid if property
be found, and void if there be none. Even if the position
assumed were confined to cases where the non-resident
defendant possessed property in the State at the
commencement of the action, it would still make the
validity of the proceedings and judgment depend upon
the question whether, before the levy of the execution,
the defendant had or had not disposed of the property. If
before the levy the property should be sold, then,
according to this position, the judgment would not be
binding. This doctrine would introduce a new element
of uncertainty in judicial proceedings. The contrary is
the law: the validity of every judgment depends upon
the jurisdiction of the court before it is rendered, not
upon what may occur subsequently. In Webster v. Reid,
reported in 11th of Howard, the plaintiff claimed title to
land sold under judgments recovered in suits brought in
a territorial court of Iowa, upon publication of notice
under a law of the territory, without service of process;
and the court said: —
"These suits were not a proceeding in rem against the
land, but were in personam against the owners of it.
Whether they all resided within the territory or not
does not appear, nor is it a matter of any importance. No
person is required to answer in a suit on whom process
has not been served, or whose property has not been
attached. In this case, there was no personal notice, nor
an attachment or other proceeding against the land,
until after the judgments. The judgments, therefore, are
nullities, and did not authorize the executions on which
the land was sold."
[95 U.S. 729] The force and effect of judgments rendered
against non-residents without personal service of
process upon them, or their voluntary appearance, have
been the subject of frequent consideration in the courts
of the United States and of the several States, as attempts
have been made to enforce such judgments in States
other than those in which they were rendered, under
the provision of the Constitution requiring that "full
faith and credit shall be given in each State to the public
acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other
State;" and the act of Congress providing for the mode
of authenticating such acts, records, and proceedings,
and declaring that, when thus authenticated, "they shall
have such faith and credit given to them in every court
within the United States as they have by law or usage in
the courts of the State from which they are or shall be
taken." In the earlier cases, it was supposed that the act
gave to all judgments the same effect in other States
which they had by law in the State where rendered. But
this view was afterwards qualified so as to make the act
applicable only when the court rendering the judgment
had jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject-matter,
and not to preclude an inquiry into the jurisdiction of
the court in which the judgment was rendered, or the
right of the State itself to exercise authority over the
person or the subject-matter. M'Elmoyle v. Cohen, 13
Pet. 312. In the case of D'Arcy v. Ketchum, reported in
the 11th of Howard, this view is stated with great
clearness. That was an action in the Circuit Court of the
United States for Louisiana, brought upon a judgment
rendered in New York under a State statute, against two
joint debtors, only one of whom had been served with
process, the other being a non-resident of the State. The
Circuit Court held the judgment conclusive and binding
upon the non-resident not served with process; but this
court reversed its decision, observing, that it was a
familiar rule that countries foreign to our own
disregarded a judgment merely against the person,
where the defendant had not been served with process
nor had a day in court; that national comity was never
thus extended; that the proceeding was deemed an
illegitimate assumption of power, and resisted as mere
abuse; that no faith and credit or force and effect had
been given to such judgments by any State of the Union,
so far [95 U.S. 730] as known; and that the State courts
had uniformly, and in many instances, held them to be
void. "The international law," said the court, "as it
existed among the States in 1790, was that a judgment
rendered in one State, assuming to bind the person of a
citizen of another, was void within the foreign State,
when the defendant had not been served with process or
voluntarily made defence; because neither the legislative
jurisdiction nor that of courts of justice had binding
force." And the court held that the act of Congress did
not intend to declare a new rule, or to embrace judicial
records of this description. As was stated in a subsequent
case, the doctrine of this court is, that the act "was not
designed to displace that principle of natural justice
which requires a person to have notice of a suit before
he can be conclusively bound by its result, nor those
rules of public law which protect persons and property
within one State from the exercise of jurisdiction over
them by another." The Lafayette Insurance Co. v.
French et al., 18 How. 404.
This whole subject has been very fully and learnedly
considered in the recent case of Thompson v. Whitman,
18 Wall. 457, where all the authorities are carefully
reviewed and distinguished, and the conclusion above
stated is not only reaffirmed, but the doctrine is asserted,
that the record of a judgment rendered in another State
may be contradicted as to the facts necessary to give the
court jurisdiction against its recital of their existence. In
all the cases brought in the State and Federal courts,
where attempts have been made under the act of
Congress to give effect in one State to personal
judgments rendered in another State against nonresidents,
without service upon them, or upon
substituted service by publication, or in some other
form, it has been held, without an exception, so far as
we are aware, that such judgments were without any
binding force, except as to property, or interests in
property, within the State, to reach and affect which was
the object of the action in which the judgment was
rendered, and which property was brought under
control of the court in connection with the process
against the person. The proceeding in such cases,
though in the form of a personal action, has been
uniformly treated, where service was not obtained, and
the party did not voluntarily [95 U.S. 731] appear, as
effectual and binding merely as a proceeding in rem, and
as having no operation beyond the disposition of the
property, or some interest therein. And the reason
assigned for this conclusion has been that which we
have already stated, that the tribunals of one State have
no jurisdiction over persons beyond its limits, and can
inquire only into their obligations to its citizens when
exercising its conceded jurisdiction over their property
within its limits. In Bissell v. Briggs, decided by the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts as early as 1813, the
law is stated substantially in conformity with these
views. In that case, the court considered at length the
effect of the constitutional provision, and the act of
Congress mentioned, and after stating that, in order to
entitle the judgment rendered in any court of the United
States to the full faith and credit mentioned in the
Constitution, the court must have had jurisdiction not
only of the cause, but of the parties, it proceeded to
illustrate its position by observing, that, where a debtor
living in one State has goods, effects, and credits in
another, his creditor living in the other State may have
the property attached pursuant to its laws, and, on
recovering judgment, have the property applied to its
satisfaction; and that the party in whose hands the
property was would be protected by the judgment in the
State of the debtor against a suit for it, because the court
rendering the judgment had jurisdiction to that extent;
but that if the property attached were insufficient to
satisfy the judgment, and the creditor should sue on that
judgment in the State of the debtor, he would fail,
because the defendant was not amenable to the court
rendering the judgment. In other words, it was held that
over the property within the State the court had
jurisdiction by the attachment, but had none over his
person; and that any determination of his liability,
except so far as was necessary for the disposition of the
property, was invalid.
In Kilbourn v. Woodworth, 5 Johns. (N.Y.) 37, an
action of debt was brought in New York upon a
personal judgment recovered in Massachusetts. The
defendant in that judgment was not served with process;
and the suit was commenced by the attachment of a
bedstead belonging to the defendant, accompanied with
a summons to appear, served on his wife after she had
left her place in Massachusetts. The court held that [95
U.S. 732] the attachment bound only the property
attached as a proceeding in rem, and that it could not
bind the defendant, observing, that to bind a defendant
personally, when he was never personally summoned or
had notice of the proceeding, would be contrary to the
first principles of justice, repeating the language in that
respect of Chief Justice DeGrey, used in the case of
Fisher v. Lane, 3 Wils. 297, in 1772. See also Borden v.
Fitch, 15 Johns. (N.Y.) 121, and the cases there cited,
and Harris v. Hardeman et al., 14 How. 334. To the
same purport decisions are found in all the State courts.
In several of the cases, the decision has been
accompanied with the observation that a personal
judgment thus recovered has no binding force without
the State in which it is rendered, implying that in such
State it may be valid and binding. But if the court has no
jurisdiction over the person of the defendant by reason
of his non-residence, and, consequently, no authority to
pass upon his personal rights and obligations; if the
whole proceeding, without service upon him or his
appearance, is coram non judice and void; if to hold a
defendant bound by such a judgment is contrary to the
first principles of justice, — it is difficult to see how the
judgment can legitimately have any force within the
State. The language used can be justified only on the
ground that there was no mode of directly reviewing
such judgment or impeaching its validity within the
State where rendered; and that, therefore, it could be
called in question only when its enforcement was
elsewhere attempted. In later cases, this language is
repeated with less frequency than formerly, it beginning
to be considered, as it always ought to have been, that a
judgment which can be treated in any State of this
Union as contrary to the first principles of justice, and as
an absolute nullity, because rendered without any
jurisdiction of the tribunal over the party, is not entitled
to any respect in the State where rendered. Smith v.
McCutchen, 38 Mo. 415; Darrance v. Preston, 18 Iowa,
396; Hakes v. Shupe, 27 id. 465; Mitchell's
Administrator v. Gray, 18 Ind. 123.
Be that as it may, the courts of the United States are not
required to give effect to judgments of this character
when any right is claimed under them. Whilst they are
not foreign tribunals in their relations to the State
courts, they are tribunals [95 U.S. 733] of a different
sovereignty, exercising a distinct and independent
jurisdiction, and are bound to give to the judgments of
the State courts only the same faith and credit which the
courts of another State are bound to give to them.
Since the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution, the validity of such judgments
may be directly questioned, and their enforcement in the
State resisted, on the ground that proceedings in a court
of justice to determine the personal rights and
obligations of parties over whom that court has no
jurisdiction do not constitute due process of law.
Whatever difficulty may be experienced in giving to
those terms a definition which will embrace every
permissible exertion of power affecting private rights,
and exclude such as is forbidden, there can be no doubt
of their meaning when applied to judicial proceedings.
They then mean a course of legal proceedings according
to those rules and principles which have been
established in our systems of jurisprudence for the
protection and enforcement of private rights. To give
such proceedings any validity, there must be a tribunal
competent by its constitution — that is, by the law of its
creation — to pass upon the subject-matter of the suit;
and, if that involves merely a determination of the
personal liability of the defendant, he must be brought
within its jurisdiction by service of process within the
State, or his voluntary appearance.
Except in cases affecting the personal status of the
plaintiff, and cases in which that mode of service may be
considered to have been assented to in advance, as
hereinafter mentioned, the substituted service of process
by publication, allowed by the law of Oregon and by
similar laws in other States, where actions are brought
against non-residents, is effectual only where, in
connection with process against the person for
commencing the action, property in the State is brought
under the control of the court, and subjected to its
disposition by process adapted to that purpose, or where
the judgment is sought as a means of reaching such
property or affecting some interest therein; in other
words, where the action is in the nature of a proceeding
in rem. As stated by Cooley in his Treatise on
Constitutional Limitations, 405, for any other purpose
than to subject the property of a non-resident to valid
claims against [95 U.S. 734] him in the State, "due
process of law would require appearance or personal
service before the defendant could be personally bound
by any judgment rendered."
It is true that, in a strict sense, a proceeding in rem is
one taken directly against property, and has for its object
the disposition of the property, without reference to the
title of individual claimants; but, in a larger and more
general sense, the terms are applied to actions between
parties, where the direct object is to reach and dispose of
property owned by them, or of some interest therein.
Such are cases commenced by attachment against the
property of debtors, or instituted to partition real estate,
foreclose a mortgage, or enforce a lien. So far as they
affect property in the State, they are substantially
proceedings in rem in the broader sense which we have
mentioned.
It is hardly necessary to observe, that in all we have said
we have had reference to proceedings in courts of first
instance, and to their jurisdiction, and not to
proceedings in an appellate tribunal to review the action
of such courts. The latter may be taken upon such
notice, personal or constructive, as the State creating the
tribunal may provide. They are considered as rather a
continuation of the original litigation than the
commencement of a new action. Nations et al. v.
Johnson et al., 24 How. 195.
It follows from the views expressed that the personal
judgment recovered in the State court of Oregon against
the plaintiff herein, then a non-resident of the State, was
without any validity, and did not authorize a sale of the
property in controversy.
To prevent any misapplication of the views expressed in
this opinion, it is proper to observe that we do not mean
to assert, by any thing we have said, that a State may not
authorize proceedings to determine the status of one of
its citizens towards a non-resident, which would be
binding within the State, though made without service
of process or personal notice to the non-resident. The
jurisdiction which every State possesses to determine
the civil status and capacities of all its inhabitants
involves authority to prescribe the conditions on which
proceedings affecting them may be commenced and
carried on within its territory. The State, for example,
has absolute [95 U.S. 735] right to prescribe the
conditions upon which the marriage relation between
its own citizens shall be created, and the causes for
which it may be dissolved. One of the parties guilty of
acts for which, by the law of the State, a dissolution may
be granted, may have removed to a State where no
dissolution is permitted. The complaining party would,
therefore, fail if a divorce were sought in the State of the
defendant; and if application could not be made to the
tribunals of the complainant's domicile in such case, and
proceedings be there instituted without personal service
of process or personal notice to the offending party, the
injured citizen would be without redress. Bish. Marr.
and Div., sect. 156.
Neither do we mean to assert that a State may not
require a non-resident entering into a partnership or
association within its limits, or making contracts
enforceable there, to appoint an agent or representative
in the State to receive service of process and notice in
legal proceedings instituted with respect to such
partnership, association, or contracts, or to designate a
place where such service may be made and notice given,
and provide, upon their failure, to make such
appointment or to designate such place that service may
be made upon a public officer designated for that
purpose, or in some other prescribed way, and that
judgments rendered upon such service may not be
binding upon the non-residents both within and
without the State. As was said by the Court of
Exchequer in Vallee v. Dumergue, 4 Exch. 290, "It is not
contrary to natural justice that a man who has agreed to
receive a particular mode of notification of legal
proceedings should be bound by a judgment in which
that particular mode of notification has been followed,
even though he may not have actual notice of them." See
also The Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French et al., 18
How. 404, and Gillespie v. Commercial Mutual Marine
Insurance Co., 12 Gray (Mass.), 201. Nor do we doubt
that a State, on creating corporations or other
institutions for pecuniary or charitable purposes, may
provide a mode in which their conduct may be
investigated, their obligations enforced, or their charters
revoked, which shall require other than personal service
upon their officers or members. Parties becoming
members of such corporations or institutions would
hold their [95 U.S. 736] interest subject to the conditions
prescribed by law. Copin v. Adamson, Law Rep. 9 Ex.
345.
In the present case, there is no feature of this kind, and,
consequently, no consideration of what would be the
effect of such legislation in enforcing the contract of a
non-resident can arise. The question here respects only
the validity of a money judgment rendered in one State,
in an action upon a simple contract against the resident
of another, without service of process upon him, or his
appearance therein.
Judgment affirmed.