Motorola, Inc. and Sports Team Analysis and Tracking
Systems ("STATS") appeal from a permanent injunction
entered by Judge Preska. The injunction concerns a
handheld pager sold by Motorola and marketed under
the name "SportsTrax," which displays updated
information of professional basketball games in
progress. The injunction prohibits appellants, absent
authorization from the National Basketball Association
and NBA Properties, Inc. (collectively the "NBA"), from
transmitting scores or other data about NBA games in
progress via the pagers, STATS's site on America OnLine's
computer dial-up service, or "any equivalent
means."
The crux of the dispute concerns the extent to which a
state law "hot-news" misappropriation claim based on
International News Service v. Associated Press, 248 U.S.
215, 39 S.Ct. 68, 63 L.Ed. 211 (1918) ("INS"), survives
preemption by the federal Copyright Act and whether
the NBA's claim fits within the surviving INS-type
claims. We hold that a narrow "hot-news" exception
does survive preemption. However, we also hold that
appellants' transmission of "real-time" NBA game scores
and information tabulated from television and radio
broadcasts of games in progress does not constitute a
misappropriation of "hot news" that is the property of
the NBA.
The NBA cross-appeals from the dismissal of its
Lanham Act claim. We hold that any misstatements by
Motorola in advertising its pager were not material and
affirm.
I. BACKGROUND
The facts are largely undisputed. Motorola manufactures
and markets the SportsTrax paging device while STATS
supplies the game information that is transmitted to the
pagers. The product became available to the public in
January 1996, at a retail price of about $200.
SportsTrax's pager has an inch-and-a-half by inch-anda-half
screen and operates in four basic modes:
"current," "statistics," "final scores" and "demonstration."
It is the "current" mode that gives rise to the present
dispute.1 In that mode, SportsTrax [105 F.3d 844]
displays the following information on NBA games in
progress: (i) the teams playing; (ii) score changes; (iii)
the team in possession of the ball; (iv) whether the team
is in the free-throw bonus; (v) the quarter of the game;
and (vi) time remaining in the quarter. The information
is updated every two to three minutes, with more
frequent updates near the end of the first half and the
end of the game. There is a lag of approximately two or
three minutes between events in the game itself and
when the information appears on the pager screen.
SportsTrax's operation relies on a "data feed" supplied
by STATS reporters who watch the games on television
or listen to them on the radio. The reporters key into a
personal computer changes in the score and other
information such as successful and missed shots, fouls,
and clock updates. The information is relayed by
modem to STATS's host computer, which compiles,
analyzes, and formats the data for retransmission. The
information is then sent to a common carrier, which
then sends it via satellite to various local FM radio
networks that in turn emit the signal received by the
individual SportsTrax pagers.
Although the NBA's complaint concerned only the
SportsTrax device, the NBA offered evidence at trial
concerning STATS's America On-Line ("AOL") site.
Starting in January, 1996, users who accessed STATS's
AOL site, typically via a modem attached to a home
computer, were provided with slightly more
comprehensive and detailed real-time game information
than is displayed on a SportsTrax pager. On the AOL
site, game scores are updated every 15 seconds to a
minute, and the player and team statistics are updated
each minute. The district court's original decision and
judgment, National Basketball Ass'n v. Sports Team
Analysis and Tracking Sys. Inc., 931 F.Supp. 1124
(S.D.N.Y.1996), did not address the AOL site, because
"NBA's complaint and the evidence proffered at trial
were devoted largely to SportsTrax." National Basketball
Ass'n v. Sports Team Analysis and Tracking Sys. Inc.,
939 F.Supp. 1071, 1074 n. 1 (S.D.N.Y.1996). Upon
motion by the NBA, however, the district court
amended its decision and judgment and enjoined use of
the real-time game information on STATS's AOL site.
Id. at 1075 n. 1. Because the record on appeal, the briefs
of the parties, and oral argument primarily addressed
the SportsTrax device, we similarly focus on that
product. However, we regard the legal issues as identical
with respect to both products, and our holding applies
equally to SportsTrax and STATS's AOL site.
The NBA's complaint asserted six claims for relief: (i)
state law unfair competition by misappropriation; (ii)
false advertising under Section 43(a) of the Lanham Act,
15 U.S.C. § 1125(a); (iii) false representation of origin
under Section 43(a) of the Lanham Act; (iv) state and
common law unfair competition by false advertising and
false designation of origin; (v) federal copyright
infringement; and (vi) unlawful interception of
communications under the Communications Act of
1934, 47 U.S.C. § 605. Motorola counterclaimed,
alleging that the NBA unlawfully interfered with
Motorola's contractual relations with four individual
NBA teams that had agreed to sponsor and advertise
SportsTrax.
The district court dismissed all of the NBA's claims
except the first — misappropriation under New York
law. The court also dismissed Motorola's counterclaim.
Finding Motorola and STATS liable for
misappropriation, Judge Preska entered the permanent
injunction,2 reserved the calculation of damages for
subsequent proceedings, and stayed execution of the
injunction pending appeal. Motorola and STATS appeal
from the injunction, while NBA cross-appeals from the
district court's dismissal of its Lanham Act falseadvertising
claim. The issues before us, therefore, are
the state law misappropriation and Lanham Act claims.
II. THE STATE LAW MISAPPROPRIATION CLAIM
A. Summary of Ruling
Because our disposition of the state law
misappropriation claim rests in large part on [105 F.3d
845] preemption by the Copyright Act, our discussion
necessarily goes beyond the elements of a
misappropriation claim under New York law, and a
summary of our ruling here will perhaps render that
discussion — or at least the need for it — more
understandable.
The issues before us are ones that have arisen in various
forms over the course of this century as technology has
steadily increased the speed and quantity of information
transmission. Today, individuals at home, at work, or
elsewhere, can use a computer, pager, or other device to
obtain highly selective kinds of information virtually at
will. International News Service v. Associated Press, 248
U.S. 215, 39 S.Ct. 68, 63 L.Ed. 211 (1918) ("INS") was
one of the first cases to address the issues raised by these
technological advances, although the technology
involved in that case was primitive by contemporary
standards. INS involved two wire services, the
Associated Press ("AP") and International News Service
("INS"), that transmitted newsstories by wire to member
newspapers. Id. INS would lift factual stories from AP
bulletins and send them by wire to INS papers. Id. at
231, 39 S.Ct. at 69-70. INS would also take factual
stories from east coast AP papers and wire them to INS
papers on the west coast that had yet to publish because
of time differentials. Id. at 238, 39 S.Ct. at 72. The
Supreme Court held that INS's conduct was a commonlaw
misappropriation of AP's property. Id. at 242, 39
S.Ct. at 73-74.
With the advance of technology, radio stations began
"live" broadcasts of events such as baseball games and
operas, and various entrepreneurs began to use the
transmissions of others in one way or another for their
own profit. In response, New York courts created a
body of misappropriation law, loosely based on INS,
that sought to apply ethical standards to the use by one
party of another's transmissions of events.
Federal copyright law played little active role in this area
until 1976. Before then, it appears to have been the
general understanding — there being no caselaw of
consequence — that live events such as baseball games
were not copyrightable. Moreover, doubt existed even
as to whether a recorded broadcast or videotape of such
an event was copyrightable. In 1976, however, Congress
passed legislation expressly affording copyright
protection to simultaneously-recorded broadcasts of live
performances such as sports events. See 17 U.S.C. § 101.
Such protection was not extended to the underlying
events.
The 1976 amendments also contained provisions
preempting state law claims that enforced rights
"equivalent" to exclusive copyright protections when the
work to which the state claim was being applied fell
within the area of copyright protection. See 17 U.S.C. §
301. Based on legislative history of the 1976
amendments, it is generally agreed that a "hot-news"
INS-like claim survives preemption. H.R. No. 94-1476
at 132 (1976), reprinted in 1976 U.S.C.C.A.N. 5659,
5748. However, much of New York misappropriation
law after INS goes well beyond "hot-news" claims and is
preempted.
We hold that the surviving "hot-news" INS-like claim is
limited to cases where: (i) a plaintiff generates or gathers
information at a cost; (ii) the information is timesensitive;
(iii) a defendant's use of the information
constitutes free riding on the plaintiff's efforts; (iv) the
defendant is in direct competition with a product or
service offered by the plaintiffs; and (v) the ability of
other parties to free-ride on the efforts of the plaintiff or
others would so reduce the incentive to produce the
product or service that its existence or quality would be
substantially threatened. We conclude that SportsTrax
does not meet that test.
B. Copyrights in Events or Broadcasts of Events
The NBA asserted copyright infringement claims with
regard both to the underlying games and to their
broadcasts. The district court dismissed these claims,
and the NBA does not appeal from their dismissal.
Nevertheless, discussion of the infringement claims is
necessary to provide the framework for analyzing the
viability of the NBA's state law misappropriation claim
in light of the Copyright Act's preemptive effect.
[105 F.3d 846] 1. Infringement of a Copyright in the
Underlying Games
In our view, the underlying basketball games do not fall
within the subject matter of federal copyright protection
because they do not constitute "original works of
authorship" under 17 U.S.C. § 102(a). Section 102(a)
lists eight categories of "works of authorship" covered
by the act, including such categories as "literary works,"
"musical works," and "dramatic works."3 The list does
not include athletic events, and, although the list is
concededly non-exclusive, such events are neither
similar nor analogous to any of the listed categories.
Sports events are not "authored" in any common sense
of the word. There is, of course, at least at the
professional level, considerable preparation for a game.
However, the preparation is as much an expression of
hope or faith as a determination of what will actually
happen. Unlike movies, plays, television programs, or
operas, athletic events are competitive and have no
underlying script. Preparation may even cause mistakes
to succeed, like the broken play in football that gains
yardage because the opposition could not expect it.
Athletic events may also result in wholly unanticipated
occurrences, the most notable recent event being in a
championship baseball game in which interference with
a fly ball caused an umpire to signal erroneously a home
run.
What "authorship" there is in a sports event, moreover,
must be open to copying by competitors if fans are to be
attracted. If the inventor of the T-formation in football
had been able to copyright it, the sport might have come
to an end instead of prospering. Even where athletic
preparation most resembles authorship — figure skating,
gymnastics, and, some would uncharitably say,
professional wrestling — a performer who conceives and
executes a particularly graceful and difficult — or, in the
case of wrestling, seemingly painful — acrobatic feat
cannot copyright it without impairing the underlying
competition in the future. A claim of being the only
athlete to perform a feat doesn't mean much if no one
else is allowed to try.
For many of these reasons, Nimmer on Copyright
concludes that the "[f]ar more reasonable" position is
that athletic events are not copyrightable. 1 M. Nimmer
& D. Nimmer, Nimmer on Copyright § 2.09[F] at 2-
170.1 (1996). Nimmer notes that, among other
problems, the number of joint copyright owners would
arguably include the league, the teams, the athletes,
umpires, stadium workers and even fans, who all
contribute to the "work."
Concededly, caselaw is scarce on the issue of whether
organized events themselves are copyrightable, but what
there is indicates that they are not. See Production
Contractors, Inc. v. WGN Continental Broadcasting
Co., 622 F.Supp. 1500 (N.D.Ill.1985) (Christmas parade
is not a work of authorship entitled to copyright
protection). In claiming a copyright in the underlying
games, the NBA relied in part on a footnote in
Baltimore Orioles, Inc. v. Major League Baseball Players
Assn., 805 F.2d 663, 669 n. 7 (7th Cir. 1986), cert.
denied, 480 U.S. 941, 107 S.Ct. 1593, 94 L.Ed.2d 782
(1987), which stated that the "[p]layers' performances"
contain the "modest creativity required for copyright
ability." However, the court went on to state,
"Moreover, even if the [p]layers' performances were not
sufficiently creative, the [p]layers agree that the
cameramen and director contribute creative labor to the
telecasts." Id. This last sentence indicates that the court
was considering the copyright ability of telecasts — not
the underlying games, [105 F.3d 847] which obviously
can be played without cameras.
We believe that the lack of caselaw is attributable to a
general understanding that athletic events were, and are,
uncopyrightable. Indeed, prior to 1976, there was even
doubt that broadcasts describing or depicting such
events, which have a far stronger case for
copyrightability than the events themselves, were
entitled to copyright protection. Indeed, as described in
the next subsection of this opinion, Congress found it
necessary to extend such protection to recorded
broadcasts of live events. The fact that Congress did not
extend such protection to the events themselves
confirms our view that the district court correctly held
that appellants were not infringing a copyright in the
NBA games.
2. Infringement of a Copyright in the Broadcasts of NBA
Games
As noted, recorded broadcasts of NBA games — as
opposed to the games themselves — are now entitled to
copyright protection. The Copyright Act was amended
in 1976 specifically to insure that simultaneouslyrecorded
transmissions of live performances and
sporting events would meet the Act's requirement that
the original work of authorship be "fixed in any tangible
medium of expression." 17 U.S.C. § 102(a). Accordingly,
Section 101 of the Act, containing definitions, was
amended to read:
A work consisting of sounds, images, or both, that are being
transmitted, is "fixed" for purposes of this title if a fixation of the
work is being made simultaneously with its transmission.
17 U.S.C. § 101. Congress specifically had sporting
events in mind:
[T]he bill seeks to resolve, through the definition of "fixation" in
section 101, the status of live broadcasts — sports, news coverage,
live performances of music, etc. — that are reaching the public in
unfixed form but that are simultaneously being recorded.
H.R. No. 94-1476 at 52, reprinted in 1976 U.S.C.C.A.N.
at 5665. The House Report also makes clear that it is the
broadcast, not the underlying game, that is the subject of
copyright protection. In explaining how game
broadcasts meet the Act's requirement that the subject
matter be an "original work[ ] of authorship," 17 U.S.C.
§ 102(a), the House Report stated:
When a football game is being covered by four television cameras,
with a director guiding the activities of the four cameramen and
choosing which of their electronic images are sent out to the public
and in what order, there is little doubt that what the cameramen
and the director are doing constitutes "authorship."
H.R. No. 94-1476 at 52, reprinted in 1976 U.S.C.C.A.N.
at 5665.
Although the broadcasts are protected under copyright
law, the district court correctly held that Motorola and
STATS did not infringe NBA's copyright because they
reproduced only facts from the broadcasts, not the
expression or description of the game that constitutes
the broadcast. The "fact/expression dichotomy" is a
bedrock principle of copyright law that "limits severely
the scope of protection in fact-based works." Feist
Publications, Inc. v. Rural Tel. Service Co., 499 U.S. 340,
350, 111 S.Ct. 1282, 1290, 113 L.Ed.2d 358 (1991). "`No
author may copyright facts or ideas. The copyright is
limited to those aspects of the work — termed
`expression' — that display the stamp of the author's
originality.'" Id. (quoting Harper & Row, Publishers, Inc.
v. Nation Enter., 471 U.S. 539, 547, 105 S.Ct. 2218,
2224, 85 L.Ed.2d 588 (1985)).
We agree with the district court that the "[d]efendants
provide purely factual information which any patron of
an NBA game could acquire from the arena without any
involvement from the director, cameramen, or others
who contribute to the originality of a broadcast." 939
F.Supp. at 1094. Because the SportsTrax device and
AOL site reproduce only factual information culled from
the broadcasts and none of the copyrightable expression
of the games, appellants did not infringe the copyright
of the broadcasts.
C. The State-Law Misappropriation Claim
The district court's injunction was based on its
conclusion that, under New York law, [105 F.3d 848]
defendants had unlawfully misappropriated the NBA's
property rights in its games. The district court reached
this conclusion by holding: (i) that the NBA's
misappropriation claim relating to the underlying games
was not preempted by Section 301 of the Copyright Act;
and (ii) that, under New York common law, defendants
had engaged in unlawful misappropriation. Id. at 1094-
1107. We disagree.
1. Preemption Under the Copyright Act
a) Summary
When Congress amended the Copyright Act in 1976, it
provided for the preemption of state law claims that are
interrelated with copyright claims in certain ways.
Under 17 U.S.C. § 301, a state law claim is preempted
when: (i) the state law claim seeks to vindicate "legal or
equitable rights that are equivalent" to one of the bundle
of exclusive rights already protected by copyright law
under 17 U.S.C. § 106 — styled the "general scope
requirement"; and (ii) the particular work to which the
state law claim is being applied falls within the type of
works protected by the Copyright Act under Sections
102 and 103 — styled the "subject matter requirement."4
The district court concluded that the NBA's
misappropriation claim was not preempted because,
with respect to the underlying games, as opposed to the
broadcasts, the subject matter requirement was not met.
939 F.Supp. at 1097. The court dubbed as "partial
preemption" its separate analysis of misappropriation
claims relating to the underlying games and
misappropriation claims relating to broadcasts of those
games. Id. at 1098, n. 24. The district court then relied
on a series of older New York misappropriation cases
involving radio broadcasts that considerably broadened
INS. We hold that where the challenged copying or
misappropriation relates in part to the copyrighted
broadcasts of the games, the subject matter requirement
is met as to both the broadcasts and the games. We
therefore reject the partial preemption doctrine and its
anomalous consequence that "it is possible for a plaintiff
to assert claims both for infringement of its copyright in
a broadcast and misappropriation of its rights in the
underlying event." Id. We do find that a properlynarrowed
INS "hot-news" misappropriation claim
survives preemption because it fails the general scope
requirement, but that the broader theory of the radio
broadcast cases relied upon by the district court were
preempted when Congress extended copyright
protection to simultaneously-recorded broadcasts.
b) "Partial Preemption" and the Subject Matter
Requirement
The subject matter requirement is met when the work
of authorship being copied or misappropriated "fall[s]
within the ambit of copyright protection." Harper &
Row, Publishers, Inc. v. Nation Enter., 723 F.2d 195,
200 (1983), rev'd on other grounds, 471 U.S. 539, 105
S.Ct. 2218, 85 L.Ed.2d 588 (1985). We believe that the
subject matter requirement is met in the instant matter
and that the concept of "partial preemption" is not
consistent with Section 301 of the Copyright Act.
Although game broadcasts are copyrightable while the
underlying games are not, the Copyright Act should not
be [105 F.3d 849] read to distinguish between the two
when analyzing the preemption of a misappropriation
claim based on copying or taking from the copyrightable
work. We believe that:
[O]nce a performance is reduced to tangible form, there is no
distinction between the performance and the recording of the
performance for the purposes of preemption under § 301(a). Thus,
if a baseball game were not broadcast or were telecast without being
recorded, the Players' performances similarly would not be fixed in
tangible form and their rights of publicity would not be subject to
preemption. By virtue of being videotaped, however, the Players'
performances are fixed in tangible form, and any rights of publicity
in their performances that are equivalent to the rights contained in
the copyright of the telecast are preempted.
Baltimore Orioles, 805 F.2d at 675 (citation omitted).
Copyrightable material often contains uncopyrightable
elements within it, but Section 301 preemption bars
state law misappropriation claims with respect to
uncopyrightable as well as copyrightable elements. In
Harper & Row, for example, we held that state law
claims based on the copying of excerpts from President
Ford's memoirs were preempted even with respect to
information that was purely factual and not
copyrightable. We stated:
[T]he [Copyright] Act clearly embraces "works of authorship,"
including "literary works," as within its subject matter. The fact that
portions of the Ford memoirs may consist of uncopyrightable
material ... does not take the work as a whole outside the subject
matter protected by the Act. Were this not so, states would be free
to expand the perimeters of copyright protection to their own
liking, on the theory that preemption would be no bar to state
protection of material not meeting federal statutory standards.
723 F.2d at 200 (citation omitted). The legislative
history supports this understanding of Section 301(a)'s
subject matter requirement. The House Report stated:
As long as a work fits within one of the general subject matter
categories of sections 102 and 103, the bill prevents the States from
protecting it even if it fails to achieve Federal statutory copyright
because it is too minimal or lacking in originality to qualify, or
because it has fallen into the public domain.
H.R. No. 94-1476 at 131, reprinted in 1976
U.S.C.C.A.N. at 5747. See also Baltimore Orioles, 805
F.2d at 676 (citing excerpts of House Report 94-1476).
Adoption of a partial preemption doctrine —
preemption of claims based on misappropriation of
broadcasts but no preemption of claims based on
misappropriation of underlying facts — would expand
significantly the reach of state law claims and render the
preemption intended by Congress unworkable. It is
often difficult or impossible to separate the fixed
copyrightable work from the underlying
uncopyrightable events or facts. Moreover, Congress, in
extending copyright protection only to the broadcasts
and not to the underlying events, intended that the
latter be in the public domain. Partial preemption turns
that intent on its head by allowing state law to vest
exclusive rights in material that Congress intended to be
in the public domain and to make unlawful conduct that
Congress intended to allow. This concern was recently
expressed in ProCD, Inc. v. Zeidenberg, 86 F.3d 1447
(7th Cir. 1996), a case in which the defendants
reproduced non-copyrightable facts (telephone listings)
from plaintiffs' copyrighted software. In discussing
preemption under Section 301(a), Judge Easterbrook
held that the subject matter requirement was met and
noted:
ProCD's software and data are "fixed in a tangible medium of
expression", and the district judge held that they are "within the
subject matter of copyright". The latter conclusion is plainly right
for the copyrighted application program, and the judge thought that
the data likewise are "within the subject matter of copyright" even
if, after Feist, they are not sufficiently original to be copyrighted.
[ProCD, Inc. v. Zeidenberg, ] 908 F.Supp. [640] at 656-57
[(W.D.Wis. 1996)]. Baltimore Orioles, Inc. v. Major League
Baseball Players Ass'n, 805 F.2d 663, 676 (7th Cir.1986), supports
that conclusion, with which commentators [105 F.3d 850] agree....
One function of § 301(a) is to prevent states from giving special
protection to works of authorship that Congress has decided should
be in the public domain, which it can accomplish only if "subject
matter of copyright" includes all works of a type covered by sections
102 and 103, even if federal law does not afford protection to them.
ProCD, 86 F.3d at 1453 (citation omitted). We agree
with Judge Easterbrook and reject the separate analysis
of the underlying games and broadcasts of those games
for purposes of preemption.
c) The General Scope Requirement
Under the general scope requirement, Section 301
"preempts only those state law rights that `may be
abridged by an act which, in and of itself, would infringe
one of the exclusive rights' provided by federal
copyright law." Computer Assoc. Int'l, Inc. v. Altai, Inc.,
982 F.2d 693, 716 (2d Cir.1992) (quoting Harper & Row,
723 F.2d at 200). However, certain forms of commercial
misappropriation otherwise within the general scope
requirement will survive preemption if an "extraelement"
test is met. As stated in Altai:
But if an "extra element" is "required instead of or in addition to the
acts of reproduction, performance, distribution or display, in order
to constitute a state-created cause of action, then the right does not
lie `within the general scope of copyright,' and there is no
preemption."
Id. (quoting 1 Nimmer on Copyright § 1.01[B] at 1-15).
ProCD was in part an application of the extra-element
test. Having held the misappropriation claims to be
preempted, Judge Easterbrook went on to hold that the
plaintiffs could bring a state law contract claim. The
court held that the defendants were bound by the
software's shrink-wrap licenses as a matter of contract
law and that the private contract rights were not
preempted because they were not equivalent to the
exclusive rights granted by copyright law. In other
words, the contract right claims were not preempted
because the general scope requirement was not met.
ProCD, 86 F.3d at 1455.
We turn, therefore, to the question of the extent to
which a "hot-news" misappropriation claim based on
INS involves extra elements and is not the equivalent of
exclusive rights under a copyright. Courts are generally
agreed that some form of such a claim survives
preemption. Financial Information, Inc. v. Moody's
Investors Service, Inc., 808 F.2d 204, 208 (2d Cir.1986),
cert. denied, 484 U.S. 820, 108 S.Ct. 79, 98 L.Ed.2d 42
(1987) ("FII"). This conclusion is based in part on the
legislative history of the 1976 amendments. The House
Report stated:
"Misappropriation" is not necessarily synonymous with copyright
infringement, and thus a cause of action labeled as
"misappropriation" is not preempted if it is in fact based neither on
a right within the general scope of copyright as specified by section
106 nor on a right equivalent thereto. For example, state law should
have the flexibility to afford a remedy (under traditional principles
of equity) against a consistent pattern of unauthorized
appropriation by a competitor of the facts (i.e., not the literary
expression) constituting "hot" news, whether in the traditional
mold of International News Service v. Associated Press, 248 U.S.
215 [39 S.Ct. 68, 63 L.Ed. 211] (1918), or in the newer form of data
updates from scientific, business, or financial data bases.
H.R. No. 94-1476 at 132, reprinted in 1976
U.S.C.C.A.N. at 5748 (footnote omitted),5 see also FII,
808 F.2d at 209 ("`misappropriation' of `hot' news,
under International News Service, [is] a branch of the
unfair competition doctrine not preempted by the
Copyright Act according to the House Report" (citation
omitted)). The crucial question, therefore, is the breadth
of the "hot-news" claim that survives preemption.
[105 F.3d 851] In INS, the plaintiff AP and defendant INS
were "wire services" that sold news items to client
newspapers. AP brought suit to prevent INS from
selling facts and information lifted from AP sources to
INS-affiliated newspapers. One method by which INS
was able to use AP's news was to lift facts from AP news
bulletins. INS, 248 U.S. at 231, 39 S.Ct. at 69-70.
Another method was to sell facts taken from justpublished
east coast AP newspapers to west coast INS
newspapers whose editions had yet to appear. Id. at 238,
39 S.Ct. at 72. The Supreme Court held (prior to Erie R.
Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64, 58 S.Ct. 817, 82 L.Ed.
1188 (1938)), that INS's use of AP's information was
unlawful under federal common law. It characterized
INS's conduct as
amount[ing] to an unauthorized interference with the normal
operation of complainant's legitimate business precisely at the point
where the profit is to be reaped, in order to divert a material
portion of the profit from those who have earned it to those who
have not; with special advantage to defendant in the competition
because of the fact that it is not burdened with any part of the
expense of gathering the news.
INS, 248 U.S. at 240, 39 S.Ct. at 72-73.
The theory of the New York misappropriation cases
relied upon by the district court is considerably broader
than that of INS. For example, the district court quoted
at length from Metropolitan Opera Ass'n v. WagnerNichols
Recorder Corp., 199 Misc. 786, 101 N.Y.S.2d
483 (N.Y.Sup.Ct.1950), aff'd, 279 A.D. 632, 107
N.Y.S.2d 795 (1st Dep't 1951). Metropolitan Opera
described New York misappropriation law as standing
for the "broader principle that property rights of
commercial value are to be and will be protected from
any form of commercial immorality"; that
misappropriation law developed "to deal with business
malpractices offensive to the ethics of [] society"; and
that the doctrine is "broad and flexible." 939 F.Supp. at
1098-1110 (quoting Metropolitan Opera, 101 N.Y.S.2d
at 492, 488-89).
However, we believe that Metropolitan Opera's broad
misappropriation doctrine based on amorphous
concepts such as "commercial immorality" or society's
"ethics" is preempted. Such concepts are virtually
synonymous for wrongful copying and are in no
meaningful fashion distinguishable from infringement
of a copyright. The broad misappropriation doctrine
relied upon by the district court is, therefore, the
equivalent of exclusive rights in copyright law.
Indeed, we said as much in FII. That decision involved
the copying of financial information by a rival financial
reporting service and specifically repudiated the broad
misappropriation doctrine of Metropolitan Opera. We
explained:
We are not persuaded by FII's argument that misappropriation is
not "equivalent" to the exclusive rights provided by the Copyright
Act.... Nor do we believe that a possible exception to the general
rule of preemption in the misappropriation area — for claims
involving "any form of commercial immorality," ... quoting
Metropolitan Opera Ass'n v. Wagner-Nichols Recorder Corp., 199
Misc. 786, 101 N.Y.S.2d 483, ... — should be applied here. We
believe that no such exception exists and reject its use here.
Whether or not reproduction of another's work is "immoral"
depends on whether such use of the work is wrongful. If, for
example, the work is in the public domain, then its use would not
be wrongful. Likewise, if, as here, the work is unprotected by
federal law because of lack of originality, then its use is neither
unfair nor unjustified.
FII, 808 F.2d at 208. In fact, FII only begrudgingly
concedes that even narrow "hot news" INS-type claims
survive preemption. Id. at 209.
Moreover, Computer Associates Intern., Inc. v. Altai
Inc. indicated that the "extra element" test should not be
applied so as to allow state claims to survive preemption
easily. 982 F.2d at 717. "An action will not be saved from
preemption by elements such as awareness or intent,
which alter `the action's scope but not its nature'....
Following this `extra element' test, we have held that
unfair competition and misappropriation claims
grounded solely in the copying of a plaintiff's protected
expression are preempted by section 301." Id. (citation
omitted).
[105 F.3d 852] In light of cases such as FII and Altai that
emphasize the narrowness of state misappropriation
claims that survive preemption, most of the broadcast
cases relied upon by the NBA are simply not good law.
Those cases were decided at a time when
simultaneously-recorded broadcasts were not protected
under the Copyright Act and when the state law claims
they fashioned were not subject to federal preemption.
For example, Metropolitan Opera, 101 N.Y.S.2d 483,
involved the unauthorized copying, marketing, and sale
of opera radio broadcasts. As another example, in
Mutual Broadcasting System v. Muzak Corp., 177 Misc.
489, 30 N.Y.S.2d 419 (Sup. Ct.1941), the defendant
simultaneously retransmitted the plaintiff's baseball
radio broadcasts onto telephone lines. As discussed
above, the 1976 amendments to the Copyright Act were
specifically designed to afford copyright protection to
simultaneously-recorded broadcasts, and Metropolitan
Opera and Muzak could today be brought as copyright
infringement cases. Moreover, we believe that they
would have to be brought as copyright cases because the
amendments affording broadcasts copyright protection
also preempted the state law misappropriation claims
under which they were decided.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that only a narrow "hotnews"
misappropriation claim survives preemption for
actions concerning material within the realm of
copyright.6 See also 1 McCarthy on Trademarks and
Unfair Competition (4th ed. 1996), § 10:69, at 10-134
(discussing National Exhibition Co. v. Fass, 133
N.Y.S.2d 379 (Sup.Ct.1954), Muzak, 30 N.Y.S.2d 419,
and other cases relied upon by NBA that pre-date the
1976 amendment to the Copyright Act and concluding
that after the amendment, "state misappropriation law
would be unnecessary and would be preempted:
protection is solely under federal copyright").7
In our view, the elements central to an INS claim are: (i)
the plaintiff generates or collects information at some
cost or expense, see FII, 808 F.2d at 206; INS, 248 U.S. at
240, 39 S.Ct. at 72-73; (ii) the value of the information is
highly time-sensitive, see FII, 808 F.2d at 209; INS, 248
U.S. at 231, 39 S.Ct. at 69-70; Restatement (Third)
Unfair Competition, § 38 cmt. c.; (iii) the defendant's
use of the information constitutes freeriding on the
plaintiff's costly efforts to generate or collect it, see FII,
808 F.2d at 207; INS, 248 U.S. at 239-40, 39 S.Ct. at 72-
73; Restatement § 38 at cmt. c.; McCarthy, § 10:73 at
10-139; (iv) the defendant's use of the information is in
direct competition with a product or service offered by
the plaintiff, FII, 808 F.2d at 209, INS, 248 U.S. at 240,
39 S.Ct. at 72-73; (v) the ability of other parties to freeride
on the efforts of the plaintiff would so reduce the
incentive to produce the product or service that its
existence or quality would be substantially threatened,
FII, 808 F.2d at 209; Restatement, § 38 at cmt. c.; INS,
248 U.S. at 241, 39 S.Ct. at 73 ("[INS's conduct] would
render [AP's] publication profitless, or so little
profitable as in effect to cut off the service by rendering
the cost prohibitive in comparison with the return.")8
[105 F.3d 853] INS is not about ethics; it is about the
protection of property rights in time-sensitive
information so that the information will be made
available to the public by profit seeking entrepreneurs. If
services like AP were not assured of property rights in
the news they pay to collect, they would cease to collect
it. The ability of their competitors to appropriate their
product at only nominal cost and thereby to disseminate
a competing product at a lower price would destroy the
incentive to collect news in the first place. The
newspaper-reading public would suffer because no one
would have an incentive to collect "hot news."
We therefore find the extra elements — those in
addition to the elements of copyright infringement —
that allow a "hot-news" claim to survive preemption are:
(i) the time-sensitive value of factual information, (ii)
the free-riding by a defendant, and (iii) the threat to the
very existence of the product or service provided by the
plaintiff.
2. The Legality of SportsTrax
We conclude that Motorola and STATS have not
engaged in unlawful misappropriation under the "hotnews"
test set out above. To be sure, some of the
elements of a "hot-news" INS claim are met. The
information transmitted to SportsTrax is not precisely
contemporaneous, but it is nevertheless time-sensitive.
Also, the NBA does provide, or will shortly do so,
information like that available through SportsTrax. It
now offers a service called "Gamestats" that provides
official play-by-play game sheets and half-time and final
box scores within each arena. It also provides such
information to the media in each arena. In the future,
the NBA plans to enhance Gamestats so that it will be
networked between the various arenas and will support
a pager product analogous to SportsTrax. SportsTrax
will of course directly compete with an enhanced
Gamestats.
However, there are critical elements missing in the
NBA's attempt to assert a "hot-news" INS-type claim. As
framed by the NBA, their claim compresses and
confuses three different informational products. The
first product is generating the information by playing
the games; the second product is transmitting live, full
descriptions of those games; and the third product is
collecting and retransmitting strictly factual information
about the games. The first and second products are the
NBA's primary business: producing basketball games for
live attendance and licensing copyrighted broadcasts of
those games. The collection and retransmission of
strictly factual material about the games is a different
product: e.g., box-scores in newspapers, summaries of
statistics on television sports news, and real-time facts
to be transmitted to pagers. In our view, the NBA has
failed to show any competitive effect whatsoever from
SportsTrax on the first and second products and a lack
of any free-riding by SportsTrax on the third.
With regard to the NBA's primary products —
producing basketball games with live attendance and
licensing copyrighted broadcasts of those games — there
is no evidence [105 F.3d 854] that anyone regards
SportsTrax or the AOL site as a substitute for attending
NBA games or watching them on television. In fact,
Motorola markets SportsTrax as being designed "for
those times when you cannot be at the arena, watch the
game on TV, or listen to the radio ..."
The NBA argues that the pager market is also relevant
to a "hot-news" INS-type claim and that SportsTrax's
future competition with Gamestats satisfies any missing
element. We agree that there is a separate market for
the real-time transmission of factual information to
pagers or similar devices, such as STATS's AOL site.
However, we disagree that SportsTrax is in any sense
free-riding off Gamestats.
An indispensable element of an INS "hot-news" claim is
free riding by a defendant on a plaintiff's product,
enabling the defendant to produce a directly competitive
product for less money because it has lower costs.
SportsTrax is not such a product. The use of pagers to
transmit real-time information about NBA games
requires: (i) the collecting of facts about the games; (ii)
the transmission of these facts on a network; (iii) the
assembling of them by the particular service; and (iv) the
transmission of them to pagers or an on-line computer
site. Appellants are in no way free-riding on Gamestats.
Motorola and STATS expend their own resources to
collect purely factual information generated in NBA
games to transmit to SportsTrax pagers. They have their
own network and assemble and transmit data
themselves.
To be sure, if appellants in the future were to collect
facts from an enhanced Gamestats pager to retransmit
them to SportsTrax pagers, that would constitute freeriding
and might well cause Gamestats to be
unprofitable because it had to bear costs to collect facts
that SportsTrax did not. If the appropriation of facts
from one pager to another pager service were allowed,
transmission of current information on NBA games to
pagers or similar devices would be substantially deterred
because any potential transmitter would know that the
first entrant would quickly encounter a lower cost
competitor free-riding on the originator's
transmissions.9
However, that is not the case in the instant matter.
SportsTrax and Gamestats are each bearing their own
costs of collecting factual information on NBA games,
and, if one produces a product that is cheaper or
otherwise superior to the other, that producer will
prevail in the marketplace. This is obviously not the
situation against which INS was intended to prevent:
the potential lack of any such product or service because
of the anticipation of free-riding.
For the foregoing reasons, the NBA has not shown any
damage to any of its products based on free-riding by
Motorola and STATS, and the NBA's misappropriation
claim based on New York law is preempted.10
III. THE NBA'S CROSS-APPEAL
The NBA cross-appeals from the district court's
dismissal of its false advertising claim under Section
43(a) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1125(a).11 This
claim was [105 F.3d 855] based on a January 1996
Motorola press release stating that SportsTrax provides
"updated game information direct from each arena"
which "originate[s] from the press table in each arena"
and on a statement appearing on the spine of the retail
box and on the retail display stand that SportsTrax
provides "game updates from the arena."
NBA argues that because STATS reporters collect their
information from television and radio broadcasts, the
information is not "direct from each arena" or even
"from the arena." Motorola responds that the statement
about information coming from the press table was an
isolated remark occurring only in that press release. It
also claims that the assertion that the game updates
come "from the arena" is not literally false, presumably
because the factual information does originate in the
arena.
To establish a false advertising claim under Section
43(a), the plaintiff must demonstrate that the statement
in the challenged advertisement is false. "Falsity may be
established by proving that (1) the advertising is literally
false as a factual matter, or (2) although the
advertisement is literally true, it is likely to deceive or
confuse customers." Lipton v. Nature Co., 71 F.3d 464,
474 (2d Cir.1995). However, in addition to proving
falsity, the plaintiff must also show that the defendants
"misrepresented an `inherent quality or characteristic'"
of the product. National Assoc. of Pharmaceutical Mfrs.
v. Ayerst Lab., 850 F.2d 904, 917 (2d Cir.1988) (quoting
Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Bristol-Myers Co., 661 F.2d 272,
278 (2d Cir.1981)). This requirement is essentially one
of materiality, a term explicitly used in other circuits.
See American Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Winback and Conserve
Program, Inc., 42 F.3d 1421, 1428 n. 9 (3d Cir.1994)
(plaintiff alleging false advertising must prove "that the
deception is material in that it is likely to influence
purchasing decisions") (citations and internal quotation
marks omitted), cert. denied, ___ U.S. ___, 115 S.Ct.
1838, 131 L.Ed.2d 757 (1995); ALPO Petfoods, Inc. v.
Ralston Purina Co., 913 F.2d 958, 964 (D.C.Cir.1990)
(false or misleading ads must be "material in their effects
on buying decisions"); Taquino v. Teledyne Monarch
Rubber, 893 F.2d 1488, 1500 (5th Cir.1990) (deception
must be "material, in that it is likely to influence the
purchasing decision"); see also 3 McCarthy on
Trademarks § 27:35 at 27-54 (there must be "some
showing that the defendant's misrepresentation was
`material' in the sense that it would have some effect on
consumers' purchasing decisions.").
The district court found, "[a]fter viewing the
complained-of statements in this action in their
context," that "[t]he statements as to the particular
origin of game updates constitute nothing more than
minutiae about SportsTrax." 939 F.Supp. at 1110. We
agree with the district court that the statements in
question are not material in the present factual context.
The inaccuracy in the statements would not influence
consumers at the present time, whose interest in
obtaining updated game scores on pagers is served only
by SportsTrax. Whether the data is taken from
broadcasts instead of being observed first-hand is,
therefore, simply irrelevant. However, we note that if
the NBA were in the future to market a rival pager with
a direct datafeed from the arenas — perhaps with
quicker updates than SportsTrax and official statistics —
then Motorola's statements regarding source might well
be materially misleading. On the present facts, however,
the complained-of statements are not material and do
not misrepresent an inherent quality or characteristic of
the product.
IV. CONCLUSION
We vacate the injunction entered by the district court
and order that the NBA's claim for misappropriation be
dismissed. We affirm the district court's dismissal of the
NBA's claim for false advertising under Section 43(a) of
the Lanham Act.