Phyllis Gray appeals from a judgment of the circuit court
of Cook County dismissing her action for damages. The
issues are concerned with the construction and validity
of our statute providing for substituted service of
process on nonresidents. Since a constitutional question
is involved, the appeal is direct to this court.
The suit was brought against the Titan Valve
Manufacturing Company and others, on the ground that
a certain water heater had exploded and injured the
plaintiff. The complaint charges, inter alia, that the
Titan company, a foreign corporation, had negligently
constructed the safety valve; and that the injuries were
suffered as a proximate result thereof. Summons issued
and was duly served on Titan's registered agent in
Cleveland, Ohio. The corporation appeared specially,
filing a motion to quash on the ground that it had not
committed a tortious act in Illinois. Its affidavit stated
that it does no business here; that it has no agent
physically present in Illinois; and that it sells the
completed valves to defendant, American Radiator &
Standard Sanitary Corporation, outside Illinois. The
American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corporation
(also made a defendant) filed an answer in which it set
up a cross claim against Titan, alleging that Titan made
certain warranties to American Radiator, and that if the
latter is held liable to the plaintiff it should be
indemnified and held harmless by Titan. The court
granted Titan's motion, dismissing both the complaint
and the cross claim.
[22 Ill.2d 435] Section 16 of the Civil Practice Act
provides that summons may be personally served upon
any party outside the State; and that as to nonresidents
who have submitted to the jurisdiction of our courts,
such service has the force and effect of personal service
within Illinois. (Ill. Rev. Stat. 1959, chap. 110, par. 16.)
Under section 17(1) (b) a non-resident who, either in
person or through an agent, commits a tortious act
within this State submits to jurisdiction. (Ill. Rev. Stat.
1959, chap. 110, par. 17.) The questions in this case are
(1) whether a tortious act was committed here, within
the meaning of the statute, despite the fact that the
Titan corporation had no agent in Illinois; and (2)
whether the statute, if so construed, violates due process
of law.
The first aspect to which we must direct our attention is
one of statutory construction. Under section 17(1) (b)
jurisdiction is predicated on the committing of a
tortious act in this State. It is not disputed, for the
purpose of this appeal, that a tortious act was
committed. The issue depends on whether it was
committed in Illinois, so as to warrant the assertion of
personal jurisdiction by service of summons in Ohio.
The wrong in the case at bar did not originate in the
conduct of a servant physically present here, but arose
instead from acts performed at the place of manufacture.
Only the consequences occurred in Illinois. It is well
established, however, that in law the place of a wrong is
where the last event takes place which is necessary to
render the actor liable. (Restatement, Conflict of Laws,
sec. 377.) A second indication that the place of injury is
the determining factor is found in rules governing the
time within which an action must be brought. In
applying statutes of limitation our court has computed
the period from the time when the injury is done.
(Madison v. Wedron Silica Co. 352 Ill. 60; Leroy v. City
of Springfield, 81 Ill. 114.) We think it is clear that the
alleged negligence in manufacturing the valve cannot be
separated from the resulting injury; [22 Ill.2d 436] and
that for present purposes, like those of liability and
limitations, the tort was committed in Illinois.
Titan seeks to avoid this result by arguing that instead of
using the word "tort," the legislature employed the term
"tortious act"; and that the latter refers only to the act or
conduct, separate and apart from any consequences
thereof. We cannot accept the argument. To be tortious
an act must cause injury. The concept of injury is an
inseparable part of the phrase. In determining legislative
intention courts will read words in their ordinary and
popularly understood sense. (Illinois State Toll Highway
Com. v. Einfeldt, 12 Ill.2d 499; Farrand Coal Co. v.
Halpin, 10 Ill.2d 507.) We think the intent should be
determined less from technicalities of definition than
from considerations of general purpose and effect. To
adopt the criteria urged by defendant would tend to
promote litigation over extraneous issues concerning
the elements of a tort and the territorial incidence of
each, whereas the test should be concerned more with
those substantial elements of convenience and justice
presumably contemplated by the legislature. As we
observed in Nelson v. Miller, 11 Ill.2d 378, the statute
contemplates the exertion of jurisdiction over
nonresident defendants to the extent permitted by the
due-process clause.
The Titan company contends that if the statute is
applied so as to confer jurisdiction in this case it violates
the requirement of due process of law. The precise
constitutional question thus presented has not
heretofore been considered by this court. In the Nelson
case the validity of the statute was upheld in an action
against a nonresident whose employee, while physically
present in Illinois, allegedly caused the injury. The ratio
decidendi was that Illinois has an interest in providing
relief for injuries caused by persons having "substantial
contacts within the State." A standard of fairness or
reasonableness was announced, within the limitation
that defendant be given a realistic opportunity to appear
and be heard. The case at bar concerns the extent [22
Ill.2d 437] to which due process permits substituted
service where defendant had no agent or employee in
the State of the forum.
Under modern doctrine the power of a State court to
enter a binding judgment against one not served with
process within the State depends upon two questions:
first, whether he has certain minimum contacts with the
State (see International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326
U.S. 310, 316, 90 L.ed. 95, 102), and second, whether
there has been a reasonable method of notification. (See
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310,
320, 90 L.ed. 95, 104-105; Nelson v. Miller, 11 Ill.2d 378,
390.) In the case at bar there is no contention that
section 16 provides for inadequate notice or that its
provisions were not followed. Defendant's argument on
constitutionality is confined to the proposition that
applying section 17(1) (b), where the injury is
defendant's only contact with the State, would exceed
the limits of due process.
A proper determination of the question presented
requires analysis of those cases which have dealt with
the quantum of contact sufficient to warrant
jurisdiction. Since the decision in Pennoyer v. Neff, 95
U.S. 714, 24 L.ed. 565, the power of a State to exert
jurisdiction over non-residents has been greatly
expanded, particularly with respect to foreign
corporations. (See Annotations, 2 L.ed.2d 1664, 94 L.ed.
1167.) International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S.
310, 90 L.ed. 95, was a proceeding to collect unpaid
contributions to the unemployment compensation fund
of the State of Washington. A statute purported to
authorize such proceedings, where the employer was
not found within the State, by sending notice by
registered mail to its last known address. The defendant
foreign corporation, a manufacturer of shoes, employed
certain salesmen who resided in Washington and who
solicited orders there. In holding that maintenance of
the suit did not violate due process the court pointed out
that the activities of the corporation in Washingon were
not only continuous and [22 Ill.2d 438] systematic but
also gave rise to the liability sued on. It was observed
that such operations, which resulted in a large volume of
business, established "sufficient contacts or ties with the
state of the forum to make it reasonable and just
according to our traditional conception of fair play and
substantial justice to permit the state to enforce the
obligations which appellant has incurred there." 326
U.S. at 320, 90 L.ed. at 104.
Where the business done by a foreign corporation in
the State of the forum is of a sufficiently substantial
nature, it has been held permissible for the State to
entertain a suit against it even though the cause of
action arose from activities entirely distinct from its
conduct within the State. (Perkins v. Benguet
Consolidated Mining Co.342 U.S. 437, 96 L.ed. 485.)
But where such business or other activity is not
substantial, the particular act or transaction having no
connection with the State of the forum, the requirement
of "contact" is not satisfied. Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U.S.
235, 253, 2 L.ed.2d 1283, 1298.
In the case at bar the defendant's only contact with this
State is found in the fact that a product manufactured in
Ohio was incorporated, in Pennsylvania, into a hot
water heater which in the course of commerce was sold
to an Illinois consumer. The record fails to disclose
whether defendant has done any other business in
Illinois, either directly or indirectly; and it is argued, in
reliance on the International Shoe test, that since a
course of business here has not been shown there are no
"minimum contacts" sufficient to support jurisdiction.
We do not think, however, that doing a given volume
of business is the only way in which a nonresident can
form the required connection with this State. Since the
International Shoe case was decided the requirements
for jurisdiction have been further relaxed, so that at the
present time it is sufficient if the act or transaction itself
has a substantial connection with the State of the forum.
[22 Ill.2d 439] In McGee v. International Life Insurance
Co.355 U.S. 220, 2 L.ed.2d 223, suit was brought in
California against a foreign insurance company on a
policy issued to a resident of California. The defendant
was not served with process in that State but was
notified by registered mail at its place of business in
Texas, pursuant to a statute permitting such service in
suits on insurance contracts. The contract in question
was delivered in California, the premiums were mailed
from there and the insured was a resident of that State
when he died, but defendant had no office or agent in
California nor did it solicit any business there apart
from the policy sued on. After referring briefly to the
International Shoe case the court held that "it is
sufficient for purposes of due process that the suit was
based on a contract which had substantial connection"
with California. (Emphasis supplied.)
In Smyth v. Twin State Improvement Corp. 116 Vt.
569, 80 A.2d 664, a Vermont resident engaged a foreign
corporation to re-roof his house. While doing the work
the corporation negligently damaged the building, and
an action was brought for damages. Service of process
was made on the Secretary of State and a copy was
forwarded to defendant by registered mail at its
principal place of business in Massachusetts. A Vermont
statute provided for such substituted service on foreign
corporations committing a tort in Vermont against a
resident of Vermont. In holding that the statute affords
due process of law, the court discussed the principal
authorities on the question and concluded, inter alia,
that "continuous activity within the state is not
necessary as a prerequisite to jurisdiction."
In Nelson v. Miller, 11 Ill.2d 378, the commission of a
single tort within this State was held sufficient to sustain
jurisdiction under the present statute. The defendant in
that case, a resident of Wisconsin, was engaged in the
business of selling appliances. It was alleged that in the
process of delivering a stove in Illinois, an employee of
the defendant [22 Ill.2d 440] negligently caused injury
to the plaintiff. In holding that the defendant was not
denied due process by being required to defend in
Illinois, this court observed at page 390: "The defendant
sent his employee into Illinois in the advancement of his
own interests. While he was here, the employee and the
defendant enjoyed the benefit and protection of the laws
of Illinois, including the right to resort to our courts. In
the course of his stay here the employee performed acts
that gave rise to an injury. The law of Illinois will
govern the substantive rights and duties stemming from
the incident. Witnesses, other than the defendant's
employee, are likely to be found here, and not in
Wisconsin. In such circumstances, it is not unreasonable
to require the defendant to make his defense here."
Whether the type of activity conducted within the State
is adequate to satisfy the requirement depends upon the
facts in the particular case. (Perkins v. Benguet
Consolidated Mining Co.342 U.S. 437, 445, 96 L.ed.
485, 492.) The question cannot be answered by applying
a mechanical formula or rule of thumb but by
ascertaining what is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances. In the application of this flexible test the
relevant inquiry is whether defendant engaged in some
act or conduct by which he may be said to have invoked
the benefits and protections of the law of the forum.
(See Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U.S. 235, 253, 2 L.ed.2d
1283, 1298; International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326
U.S. 310, 319, 90 L.ed. 95, 104.) The relevant decisions
since Pennoyer v. Neff show a development of the
concept of personal jurisdiction from one which
requires service of process within the State to one which
is satisfied either if the act or transaction sued on occurs
there or if defendant has engaged in a sufficiently
substantial course of activity in the State, provided
always that reasonable notice and opportunity to be
heard are afforded. As the Vermont court recognized in
the Smyth case, the [22 Ill.2d 441] trend in defining due
process of law is away from the emphasis on territorial
limitations and toward emphasis on providing adequate
notice and opportunity to be heard: from the court with
immediate power over the defendant, toward the court
in which both parties can most conveniently settle their
dispute.
In the McGee case the court commented on the trend
toward expanding State jurisdiction over nonresidents,
observing that: "In part this is attributable to the
fundamental transformation of our national economy
over the years. Today many commercial transactions
touch two or more States and may involve parties
separated by the full continent. With this increasing
nationalization of commerce has come a great increase
in the amount of business conducted by mail across state
lines. At the same time modern transportation and
communication have made it much less burdensome for
a party sued to defend himself in a State where he
engages in economic activity."
It is true that courts cannot "assume that this trend
heralds the eventual demise of all restrictions on the
personal jurisdiction of state courts." (Hanson v.
Denckla, 357 U.S. 235, 251, 2 L.ed.2d 1283, 1296.) An
orderly and fair administration of the law throughout
the nation requires protection against being compelled
to answer claims brought in distant States with which
the defendant has little or no association and in which
he would be faced with an undue burden or
disadvantage in making his defense. It must be
remembered that lawsuits can be brought on frivolous
demands or groundless claims as well as on legitimate
ones, and that procedural rules must be designed and
appraised in the light of what is fair and just to both
sides in the dispute. Interpretations of basic rights which
consider only those of a claimant are not consonant
with the fundamental requisites of due process.
In the case at bar defendant does not claim that the [22
Ill.2d 442] present use of its product in Illinois is an
isolated instance. While the record does not disclose the
volume of Titan's business or the territory in which
applicances incorporating its valves are marketed, it is a
reasonable inference that its commercial transactions,
like those of other manufacturers, result in substantial
use and consumption in this State. To the extent that its
business may be directly affected by transactions
occurring here it enjoys benefits from the laws of this
State, and it has undoubtedly benefited, to a degree,
from the protection which our law has given to the
marketing of hot water heaters containing its valves.
Where the alleged liability arises, as in this case, from
the manufacture of products presumably sold in
contemplation of use here, it should not matter that the
purchase was made from an independent middleman or
that someone other than the defendant shipped the
product into this State.
With the increasing specialization of commercial
activity and the growing interdependence of business
enterprises it is seldom that a manufacturer deals
directly with consumers in other States. The fact that
the benefit he derives from its laws is an indirect one,
however, does not make it any the less essential to the
conduct of his business; and it is not unreasonable,
where a cause of action arises from alleged defects in his
product, to say that the use of such products in the
ordinary course of commerce is sufficient contact with
this State to justify a requirement that he defend here.
As a general proposition, if a corporation elects to sell its
products for ultimate use in another State, it is not
unjust to hold it answerable there for any damage caused
by defects in those products. Advanced means of
distribution and other commercial activity have made
possible these modern methods of doing business, and
have largely effaced the economic significance of State
lines. By the same token, today's facilities for
transportation and communication have removed much
of the difficulty and inconvenience [22 Ill.2d 443]
formerly encountered in defending lawsuits brought in
other States.
Unless they are applied in recognition of the changes
brought about by technological and economic progress,
jurisdictional concepts which may have been reasonable
enough in a simpler economy lose their relation to
reality, and injustice rather than justice is promoted.
Our unchanging principles of justice, whether
procedural or substantive in nature, should be
scrupulously observed by the courts. But the rules of law
which grow and develop within those principles must
do so in the light of the facts of economic life as it is
lived today. Otherwise the need for adaptation may
become so great that basic rights are sacrificed in the
name of reform, and the principles themselves become
impaired.
The principles of due process relevant to the issue in
this case support jurisdiction in the court where both
parties can most conveniently settle their dispute. The
facts show that the plaintiff, an Illinois resident, was
injured in Illinois. The law of Illinois will govern the
substantive questions, and witnesses on the issues of
injury, damages and other elements relating to the
occurrence are most likely to be found here. Under such
circumstances the courts of the place of injury usually
provide the most convenient forum for trial. (See
Watson v. Employers Liability Assurance Corp.348 U.S.
66, 72, 99 L.ed. 74, 82.) In Travelers Health Association
v. Virginia, 339 U.S. 643, 94 L.ed. 1154, a Nebraska
insurance corporation was held subject to the
jurisdiction of a Virginia regulatory commission
although it had no paid agents within the State and its
only contact there was a mail-order business operated
from its Omaha office. The court observed, by way of
dictum, that "suits on alleged losses can be more
conveniently tried in Virginia where witnesses would
most likely live and where claims for losses would
presumably be investigated. Such factors have been
given great weight in applying the doctrine [22 Ill.2d
444] of forum non conveniens. See Gulf Oil Co. v.
Gilbert, 330 U.S. 501, 508, 91 L.ed. 1055, 1062, 67 S.Ct.
839. And prior decisions of this Court have referred to
the unwisdom, unfairness and injustice of permitting
policyholders to seek redress only in some distant state
where the insurer is incorporated. The Due Process
Clause does not forbid a state to protect its citizens from
such injustice." (339 U.S. at 649, 94 L.ed. 1161-1162.)
We think a similar conclusion must follow in the case at
bar.
We are aware of decisions, cited by defendant, wherein
the opposite result was reached on somewhat similar
factual situations. (See Erlanger Mills, Inc. v. Cohoes
Fibre Mills, Inc., 239 F.2d 502 (4th cir.); Hellriegel v.
Sears Roebuck & Co.157 F.Supp. 718 (N.D. Ill., E.D.);
Johns v. Bay State Abrasive Products Co.89 F.Supp. 654
(D. Md., Civ. D.).) Little purpose can be served,
however, by discussing such cases in detail, since the
existence of sufficient "contact" depends upon the
particular facts in each case. In any event we think the
better rule supports jurisdiction in cases of the present
kind. We conclude accordingly that defendant's
association with this State is sufficient to support the
exercise of jurisdiction.
We construe section 17(1) (b) as providing for
jurisdiction under the circumstances shown in this case,
and we hold that as so construed the statute does not
violate due process of law.
The trial court erred in quashing service of summons
and in dismissing the complaint and cross claim. The
judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to the
circuit court of Cook County, with directions to deny
the motion to quash.
Reversed and remanded, with directions.