1. Where, in an action to recover on a contract for
services, defended on the ground that there was no
consideration for the contract as the plaintiff was
already bound under a prior agreement to do the same
work for the same period for a lesser salary, the record
shows that a[231 N.Y. 197] question of fact was
presented and that the evidence most favorable for the
plaintiff would sustain a finding that the first contract
was destroyed, canceled or abrogated by the consent of
both parties, it was error for the trial justice to set aside
a verdict in favor of plaintiff and dismiss the complaint
and a reversal of such ruling was proper.
Appeal, by permission, from a judgment of the Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court in the first judicial
department, entered June 28, 1919, affirming a determination
of the Appellate Term, which reversed a judgment
in favor of defendant entered upon an order of the
trial justice in the City Court of the city of New York
setting aside a verdict in favor of plaintiff and directing a
dismissal of the complaint and reinstated said verdict.
Schwartzreich v. Bauman-Basch, Inc., 188 App. Div.
960, affirmed.
2. A contract of employment may be set aside or
terminated by the parties to it and a new one made or
substituted in its place and it is competent to end
the"one and make the other at the same time.
3. A charge, by the trial justice, therefore, to the effect
that if the jury find that the old contract was, prior to or
at the time of the execution of the new contract, “
cancelled and revoked by the parties by their mutual
consent then it is your duty to find that there was a
consideration for the making of the contract in suit ”
and “ the test, question is whether by word or by act,
either prior to or at the time of the signing ” of the new
contract “ these parties mutually agreed that the old
contract from that instant should be null and void,” is
correct and a reinstatement of the verdict was proper.
On the 31st day of August, 1917, the plaintiff entered
into the following employment agreement with the
defendant:
“ Bauman-Basch, Inc.,
“ Coats & Wraps
“ 31-33 East 32nd Street
“ New York
“ Agreement entered into this 31st day of August, 1917,
by and between Bauman-Basch, Inc., a domestic
corporation, party of the first part, and Louis Schwartzreich,
of the Borough of Bronx, City of New York, party
of the second part, Witnesseth:
[231 N.Y. 199] “ The party of the first part does hereby
employ the party of the second part, and the party of the
second part agrees to enter the services of the party of
the first part as a designer of coats and wraps.
“ The employment herein shall commence on the 22nd
day of November, 1917, and shall continue for twelve
months thereafter. The party of the second part shall
receive a salary of Ninety ($90.00) per week, payable
weekly.
“ The party of the second part shall devote his entire
time and attention to the business of the party of the
first part, and shall use his best energies and endeavors
in the furtherance of its business.
“In witness whereof, the party of the first part has
caused its seal to be affixed hereto and these presents to
be signed, and the party of the second part has hereunto
set his hand and seal the day and year first above
written. BAUMAN-BASCH, INC.
“ S. Bauman
“ LOUIS SCHWARTZREICH.
“ In the presence of
In October the plaintiff was offered more money by
another concern. Mr. Bauman, an officer of the
Bauman-Basch, Inc., says that in that month he heard
that the plaintiff was going to leave and thereupon had
with him the following conversation.
“ A. I called him in the office, and I asked him, 1 Is that
true that you want to leave us? ’ and he said ‘ Yes,’ and I
said, ' Mr. Schwartzreich, how can you do that;, you are
under contract with us? ’ He said, ' Somebody offered me
more money.’ * * * I said, 1 How much do they offer
you? ’ He said, ' They offered him $115 a week.’ * * * I
said, ‘ I cannot get a designer now, and, in view of the
fact that I have to send my sample line out on the road, I
will give you a hundred dollars a week rather than to let
you go.’ He said, ‘ If you will give me $100, I will stay.’ ”
[231 N.Y. 200] Thereupon Mr. Bauman dictated to his
stenographer a new contract, dated October 17, 1917, in
the exact words of the first contract and running for the
same period, the salary being $100 a week, which
contract was duly executed by the parties and witnessed.
Duplicate originals were kept by the plaintiff and
defendant.
Simultaneously with the signing of this new contract,
the plaintiff’s copy of the old contract was either given ■
to or left with Mr. Bauman. He testifies that the plaintiff
gave him the paper but that he did not take it from him.
The signatures to the old contract plaintiff tore off at the
time according to Mr. Bauman.
The plaintiff’s version as to the execution of the new
contract "is as follows:
“A. I told Mr. Bauman that I have an offer from Scheer & Mayer of
$110 a week, and I said to him, [ Do you advise me as á friendly
matter —■ will you advise me as a friendly matter what to do; you
see I have a contract with you, and I should not accept the offer of
$110 a week, and I ask you, as a matter of friendship, do you advise
me to take it or not.’ At the minute he did not say anything, but the
day afterwards he came to me in and he said, ‘ I will give you $100 a
week, and I want you to stay with me.’ I said, ' All right, I will accept
it; it is very nice of you that you do that, and I appreciate it very
much.’ ”
The plaintiff says that on the 17th of October when the
new contract was signed, he gave his copy of the old
contract back to Mr. Bauman, who said: “ You do not
want this contract any more because the new one takes
its place.”
The plaintiff remained in the defendant’s employ until
the following December when he was discharged. He
brought this action under the contract of October 17th
for his damages.
The defense, insisted upon through all the courts, is that
there was no consideration for the new contract[231
N.Y. 201] as the plaintiff was already bound under his
agreement of August 31, 1917, to do the same work for
the same period at $90 a week.
The trial justice submitted to the jury the question
whether there was a cancellation of the old contract and
charged as follows:
“ If you find that the $90 contract was prior to or at the
time of the execution of the $100 contract cancelled and
revoked by the parties by their mutual consent, then it is
your duty to find that there was a consideration for the
making of the contract in suit, viz., the $100 contract
and, in that event, the plaintiff would be entitled to your
verdict for such damages as you may find resulted
proximately, naturally and necessarily in consequence of
the plaintiff’s discharge prior to the termination of the
contract period of which I shall speak later on.”
Defendant’s counsel thereupon excepted to that portion
of the charge in which the court permitted the jury to
find that the prior contract may have been canceled
simultaneously with the execution of the other
agreement. Again the court said:
“ The test question is whether by word or by act, either prior to or
at the time of the signing of the $100 contract, these parties
mutually agreed that the old contract from that instant should be
null and void.”
The jury having rendered a verdict for the plaintiff the
trial justice set it aside and dismissed’the complaint on
the ground that, there was not sufficient evidence that
the first contract was canceled to warrant the jury’s
findings.
The above quotations from the record show that a
question of fact was presented and that the evidence
most favorable for the plaintiff would sustain a finding
that the first contract was destroyed, canceled or abrogated
by the consent of both parties.
The Appellate Term was right in reversing this ruling.
Instead of granting a new trial, however, it
reinstated[231 N.Y. 202] the verdict of the jury and the
judgment for the plaintiff. The question remains,
therefore, whether the charge of the court, as above
given, was a correct statement of the law or whether on
all the evidence in the plaintiff’s favor a cause of action
was made out.
Can a contract of employment be set aside or terminated
by the parties to it and a new one made or substituted in
its place? If so, is it competent to end the one and make
the other at the same time?
It has been repeatedly held that a promise made to
induce a party to do that which he is already bound by
contract to perform is without consideration. But the
cases in this state, while enforcing this rule, also
recognize that a contract may be canceled by mutual
consent and a new one made. ' Thus Vanderbilt v.
Schreyer (91 N. Y. 392, 402) held that it was no
consideration for a guaranty that a party promise to do
only that which he was before legally bound to perform.
This court stated, however:
“ It would doubtless be competent for parties to cancel
an existing contract and make a new one to complete
the same work at a different rate of compensation, but it
seems that it would be essential to its validity that there
should be a valid cancellation of the original contract.
Such was the case of Lattimore v. Harsen (14 Johns.
330).”
In Cosgray v. New England Piano Co. (10 App. Div.
351, 353) it was decided that where the plaintiff had
bound himself to work for a year at $30 a week, there
was no consideration for a promise thereafter made by
the defendant that he should notwithstanding receive
$1,800 a year. Here it will be noticed there was no
termination of the first agreement which gave occasion
for Bartlett, J., to say in the opinion:
“ The case might be different if. the parties had, by word of mouth,
agreed wholly to abrogate and do away with a pre-existing written
contract in regard to service[231 N.Y. 203] and compensation, and
had substituted for it 'another agreement.” . /
Any change in an existing contract, such as» a modi-)
fication of the rate of compensation, or a supplemental
agreement, must have a new" consideration to support,
it. In such a case the contract is continued, not ended. \
Where, however, an existing contract is terminated by
consent of both parties and a new one executed in its
place and stead, we have a different situation and the '
mutual promises are again a consideration. Very little
difference may appear in a mere- change of
compensation in an existing and continuing contract
and a termination of one contract and the making of a
new one for the same time and work, but at an increased
compensation. There is, however, a marked difference
in principle. Where the new contract gives any new
privilege or ¡ advantage to the promisee, a consideration
has been | recognized, though in the main it is the same
contract, (Triangle Waist Co., Inc., v. Todd, 223 N. Y.
27.)
If this which we are now holding were not the rule,
parties having once made a contract would be prevented
from changing it no matter how willing and desirous
they might be to do so, unless the terms conferred an
additional benefit to the promisee.
All concede that an agreement may be rescinded by/
mutual consent and a new agreement made thereafter
on any terms to which the parties may assent. Prof.
Williston in his work on Contracts says (Vol. I, § 130a):
“ A rescission followed shortly afterwards by a new
agreement in regard to the same subject-matter Would
create the legal obligations provided in the subsequent
agreement.”
The same effect follows in our judgment from a new
contract entered into at the same time the old one is
destroyed and rescinded by mutual consent. The deter-,
mining factor is the rescission by consent. Provided this
is the expressed and acted upon intention, the time[231
N.Y. 204] of the rescission, whether a moment before
or at the same time as the making of the new contract, is
unimportant.
The decisions are numerous and divergent where one of
the parties to a contract refuses to perform unless paid
an additional amount. Some states hold the new promise
to pay the demand binding though there' be no
rescission. It is said that the new promise is given to
secure performance in place of an action for damages for
not performing (Parrot v. Mexican Central Railway Co.,
207 Mass. 184), or that the new contract is evidence of
the rescission of the old one and it is the same as if no
previous contract had been made (Coyner v. Lynde, 10
Ind. 282; Connelly v. Devoe, 37 Conn. 570; Goebel v.
Linn, 47 Mich. 489), or that unforeseen difficulties and
hardships modify the rule (King v. Duluth, M. & N. Ry.
Co., 61 Minn. 482), or that the new contract is an
attemp]^¿4> mitigate, the damages which may flow
from the breach of the first. (Endriss v. Belle Isle Ice Co.,
49 Mich. 279.) (See Anson’s Law of Contract [Huffcut’s
Amer. Ed.], p. 114, sec. 138.) To like effect are Blodgett
v. Foster (120 Mich. 392); Scanlon v. Northwood (147
Mich. 139); Evans v. Oregon & Washington R. R. Co.
(58 Wash. 429); Main Street & A. P. R. R. Co. v. Los
Angeles Traction Co. (129 Cal. 301).
The contrary has been held in such cases as Carpenter v.
Taylor (164 N. Y. 171); Price v. Press Publishing Co.
(117 App. Div. 854); Davis & Company v. Morgan (117
Ga. 504); Alaska Packers’ Association v. Domenico (117
Fed. Rep. 99); Conover v. Stillwell (34 N. J. L. 54, 57);
Erny v. Sauer (234 Penn. St. 330). In none of these cases,
however, was there a full and complete rescission ' of
the old contract and it is this with which we are dealing
in this case. Rescission is not presumed; it is expressed;
the old contract is not continued with modifications; it
is ended and a new one made.
The efforts of the courts to give a legal reason for
holding good a promise to pay an additional
compensation[231 N.Y. 205] for the fulfillment of a preexisting
contract is commented upon in note upon
Abbott v. Doane (163 Mass.. 433) in 34 L. R. A. 33, 39,
and the result reached is stated as follows: “The almost
universal rule, is that without any express rescission of
the old contract, the promise is made simply for
additional compensation, making the new promise a
mere nudumrf pactum.” As before stated, in this case we
have án express rescission and a new contract.
There is no reason that we can see why the parties to a
contract may not come together and agree to cancel and
rescind an existing contract, making a new one in its
place. We are also of the opinion that reason and
authority support the conclusion that both transactions
can take place at the same time.
For the reasons here stated, the charge of the trial court
was correct, and the judgments of the Appellate
Division and the Appellate Term should be affirmed,
with costs.
Judgments affirmed.