The right of trial by jury secured by Article I, paragraph
9 of the 1947 State Constitution, as under like guaranties
of the 1844 Constitution, Article I, paragraph 7, and the
1776 Constitution, Article XXII, "is the right as it
existed at common law and remained on July 2, 1776,"
not as enlarged by statute, as if "* * * each constitutional
provision speaks anew as of the time of the adoption of
the instrument of which it is a part * * *." Town of
Montclair v. Stanoyevich, 6 N.J. 479 (1951). See Board
of Health of Weehawken Tp. v. New York Central R.
Co., 10 N.J. 294 (1952). The right "* * * is not to be
impaired or diminished, but is to remain as it existed at
common law, and according to the practice of the courts
anterior to the establishment of the fundamental law."
State v. Doty, 32 N.J.L. 403 (Sup. Ct. 1868), Beasley, C.J.
See also Howe v. Treasurer of Plainfield, 37 N.J.L. 145
(Sup. Ct. 1874). The jurors "compose the appropriate
tribunal for the determination of controverted questions
of fact * * *." Kohl v. State, 59 N.J.L. 445 (E. & A. 1896).
And see State v. Knight, 96 N.J.L. 461 (E. & A. 1921).
Trial by jury as the means of determining "questions of
fact" is of great antiquity, importing a jury of 12 men,
impartially selected, whose verdict was required to be by
the concurrence of all. Brown v. State of New Jersey, 62
N.J.L. 666 (E. & A. 1899), affirmed 175 U.S. 172, 20 S.Ct.
77, 44 L.Ed. 119 (1899). The constitutional requirement
that "the right to a trial by jury shall remain inviolate"
guarantees "the opportunity to submit common law
rights to a tribunal that shall possess the attributes of the
historical jury as it existed at the time of the adoption of
the organic law." Clayton v. Clark, 55 N.J.L. 539 (Sup.
Ct. 1893).
And the constitutional right of trial by jury controls the
exercise of judicial power at the trial level to set aside a
verdict as contrary to the weight of the evidence and for
[24 N.J. 82] appellate relief to the same end; the court
"may not merely weigh the evidence where it is fairly
susceptible of divergent inferences and substitute its
own judgment for that of the jury," but if the verdict be
"so far contrary to the weight of the evidence as to give
rise to the inescapable conclusion of mistake, passion,
prejudice, or partiality," it transcends the constitutional
province of the jury and is remediable as an excess of
power; the court may not set aside a verdict merely
because, in its opinion, the jury upon the evidence might
well have found otherwise; and this conception of the
weight of the evidence applies to civil and criminal
cases. Hager v. Weber, 7 N.J. 201 (1951).
As is shown by Justice Sutherland's analysis of the case
history in Dimick v. Schiedt, 293 U.S. 474, 55 S.Ct. 296,
79 L.Ed. 603 (1935), there was no power in the English
courts at the time of the adoption of the New Jersey
Constitution of 1776 to increase, either absolutely or
conditionally, the damages fixed by a jury in a case such
as this. The power to increase the award had been
exercised on occasion (a) in actions for mayhem, upon
view of the party maimed; (b) where damages had been
assessed upon a writ of inquiry, and then upon the
ground that the justices might themselves have awarded
damages without the writ; and (c) in some of the old
cases where the amount of the plaintiff's demand was
certain, as, for example, in an action of debt.
In Beardmore v. Carrington, 2 Wils. 244, 95 Eng. Repr.
790, decided in 1764, the holding was that the English
courts were without power either to increase or reduce
damages in any action for a personal tort, unless in the
exceptional cases noted ante. The practice of granting
new trials was there termed "modern," a power courts
"anciently never exercised," although "in some particular
cases they corrected the damages from evidence laid
before them." The court continued:
"There is great difference between cases of damages
which [may] be certainly seen, and such as are ideal, as
between assumpsit, trespass for goods where the sum
and value may be measured, and [24 N.J. 83] actions of
imprisonment, malicious prosecution, slander and other
personal torts, where the damages are matter of
opinion, speculation, ideal; there is also a difference
between a principal verdict of a jury, and a writ of
inquiry of damages, the latter being only an inquest of
office to inform the conscience of the Court, and which
they might have assessed themselves without any
inquest at all; only in the case of maihem, Courts have in
all ages interposed in that single instance only; as to the
case of the writ of inquiry in the Year-Book of H.4, we
doubt whether what is said by the Court in that case be
right, that they would abridge the damages unless the
plaintiff would release part thereof, because there is not
one case to be found in the Year-Books where ever the
Court abridged the damages after a principal verdict,
and this is clear down to the time of [Hawkim v. Sciet]
Palmer's Rep. 314, [81 Eng. Repr., 1099] much less have
they interposed in increasing damages, except in the case
of maihem; * * *."
And in Mayne's Treatise on Damages (9th ed.), 571, the
first edition of which was published in 1856, it is said
that "in cases where the amount of damages was
uncertain their assessment was a matter so peculiarly
within the province of the jury that the Court should
not alter it." The author continues, p. 580:
"When an excessive verdict is given, it is usual for the
judge to suggest to counsel to agree on a sum, to prevent
the necessity of a new trial. In the absence of agreement
the Court has no power to reduce the damages to a
reasonable sum instead of ordering a new trial. It would
seem also from what was said in the case in which this
was recently decided, that where the damages are too
small, the Court cannot with the defendant's consent
increase them, if the plaintiff asks for a new trial."
In Watt v. Watt (1905), A.C. 115, 6 B.R.C. 1, 2 Ann.
Cas. 672, the House of Lords said the idea that the court
could with the consent of the plaintiff reduce the
amount of the damages probably arose from the fact that
in the old cases the courts had "adopted the somewhat
unconstitutional proceeding of refusing to give the
plaintiff judgment unless he would consent to reduce his
claim to what ought to be considered reasonable," an
indirect method implying the need for the plaintiff's
assent; and that since the defendant was not likely to
refuse his assent to a proceeding intended for his
benefit, the theory of the cases seems to [24 N.J. 84]
have been that the right of the court to interfere with
the verdict depended upon the consent of both parties;
and the contrary hypothesis here contended for was
utterly repudiated as alien to the common law and
sound English practice.
The Earl of Halsbury, L.C. there affirmed that the Court
of Appeal "has no jurisdiction to fix the amount of
damages without the consent of both parties"; he
attributed the "confusion" in this regard to the practice
upon demurrer or default, where the court may have the
sheriff assess the damages, the usual course, or "* * *
decide that question for itself — probably because that
question is often a question of law, where the damages
are fixed by law * * *," and he noted the "* * *
distinction between trial by jury and mere inquisition or
inquiry by a jury to assess damages — that, in the latter
case the inquisition was only to inform the mind of the
court and it was at their discretion whether they would
award judgment for the amount found by the jury,
where as upon a trial they had no jurisdiction to
interfere as to the amount of damages in cases of tort,"
citing Reeves' History of the Common Law, and that the
"theory of all the cases seems to me to be that the right
of the court to interfere with a jury's verdict was only to
be by the assent of both parties."
And Lord Robertson declared the contrary view "is on
principle indefensible."
In the later case of Barber & Co. v. Deutsche Bank
(1919), A.C. 304, H.L., Lord Phillimore affirmed the
true principle to be this:
"Where damages are at large and the Court of Appeal is
of opinion that the sum awarded is so unreasonable as to
show that the jury has not approached the subject in a
proper judicial temper, has admitted considerations
which it ought not to have admitted, or rejected or
neglected considerations which it ought to have applied,
it is the right of the party aggrieved to have a new trial.
He is not to be put off by the Court saying that it will
form its opinion as to the proper sum to be awarded,
and reduce or enlarge the damages accordingly. He is
entitled to an assessment by a jury which acts properly.
He is not to be put off by a composite decision, [24 N.J.
85] or I might describe it as a resultant of two imperfect
forces — an assessment partly made by a jury which has
acted improperly and partly by a tribunal which has no
power to assess."
And so, in Dimick v. Schiedt, supra, Justice Sutherland
concluded, and with unquestionable authority, that
"while there was some practice to the contrary in respect
of decreasing damages, the established practice and the
rule of the common law, as it existed in England at the
time of the adoption of the Constitution, forbade the
court to increase the amount of damages awarded by a
jury in actions such as that here under consideration."
He observed that "this court in a very special sense is
charged with the duty of construing and upholding the
Constitution; and in the discharge of that important
duty, it ever must be alert to see that a doubtful
precedent [involving remittitur] be not extended by
mere analogy to a different case if the result will be to
weaken or subvert what it conceives to be a principle of
the fundamental law of the land"; and that "the power to
conditionally increase the verdict of a jury does not
follow as a necessary corollary from the power to
conditionally decrease it," since in the case of a
conditional remittitur "a jury has already awarded a sum
in excess of that fixed by the court as a basis for a
remittitur, which at least finds some support in the early
English practice, while in the second case, no jury has
ever passed on the increased amount, and the practice
has no precedent according to the rules of the common
law."
The "controlling distinction between the power of the
court and that of the jury," said Justice Sutherland, "is
that the former is the power to determine the law and
the latter to determine the facts," and while the
remittitur practice in the case of an excessive verdict "is
not without plausible support in the view that what
remains is included in the verdict along with the
unlawful excess, — in the sense that it has been found by
the jury, — and that the remittitur has the effect of
merely lopping off an excrescence," yet where an
inadequate verdict is increased by the court there is a
"bald addition of something which in no sense can be
[24 N.J. 86] said to be included in the verdict," and if
that be done with the consent of the defendant alone,
the plaintiff is compelled to forego his "constitutional
right to the verdict of a jury and accept `an assessement
partly made by a jury which has acted improperly, and
partly by a tribunal which has no power to assess.'"
It was there pointed out that while the remittitur
practice had acceptance in the federal jurisdiction for
more than a century, following Justice Story's ruling at
the circuit in Blunt v. Little, Fed. Cas. No. 1,578, 3
Mason 102 (C.C. 1822), no federal court had undertaken
to increase a jury award of damages, although there are
numerous cases in which a new trial was granted for
inadequate damages. And this is equally true of New
Jersey, save that in Gaffney v. Illingsworth, 90 N.J.L. 490
(E. & A. 1917), a new trial was ordered unless the
defendant would consent to an increase of the jury's
verdict of $190.25 for the plaintiff to $480.50. In
Esposito v. Lazar, 2 N.J. 257 (1949), error was found in
the award of a new trial limited to damages in that the
amount of the verdict indicated a "compromise" on
liability.
There can be no doubt that the additur practice
sanctioned here contravenes the essence of the
common-law right of trial by jury at the time of the
adoption of the 1776 Constitution, then and ever since a
basic right under the law of England; and this is the very
substance of our own constitutional guaranty. We are
still a common-law State; and the essential principles of
the common law are in force except as modified by our
own Constitution and statutes enacted in keeping with
the Constitution. This, in virtue of an explicit
constitutional mandate. Taneian v. Meghrigian, 15 N.J.
267 (1954).
The reasoning of the minority in Dimick proceeds on
the hypothesis, "long accepted in the federal courts," that
the "exercise of judicial discretion in denying a motion
for a new trial, on the ground that the verdict is too
small or too large, is not subject to review on writ of
error or appeal," a "special application of the more
general rule that an [24 N.J. 87] appellate court will not
re-examine the facts which induced the trial court to
grant or deny a new trial," and the unwilling plaintiff
whose inadequate verdict has been increased by the
court "has suffered no denial of a right because the
court, staying its hand, has left the verdict undisturbed,
as it lawfully might have done if the defendant had
refused to pay more than the verdict," and, although the
common law had made no rule on the subject in 1791,
the court could not "rightly refuse to apply to either the
principle of general application that it is competent to
exercise a discretionary power to grant or withhold
relief in any way which is not unjust," analogizing the
judge's function, "when sitting in equity," to withhold
"relief upon the compliance with a condition, the
performance of which will do substantial justice," citing
Belt v. Lawes, L.R. 12 Q.B. Div. 356 (C.A. 1884), a
remittitur case overruled by the House of Lords in Watt
v. Watt, cited supra.
But this rationale does not take into account the basic
quality of our own constitutional right of trial by jury,
after the mode and manner and essentiality of the
common law, to this very day "the glory of the English
law" and "the most transcendant privilege which any
subject can enjoy," to use the words of Blackstone, Bk. 3,
p. 379. And the additur principle is without general
acceptance in this country, and for the given reasons.
See annotation to Dimick in 95 A.L.R. 1163; Burdict v.
Missouri Pac. Ry. Co., 123 Mo. 227, 27 S.W. 453, 26
L.R.A. 384 (Sup. Ct. 1894); also 39 Am. Jur. 206; 3 Am.
Jur. 688. It is a doctrine of the civil law. Southall v.
Smith, 151 La. 967, 92 So. 402, 27 A.L.R. 1194 (Sup. Ct.
1922); Stoehr v. Payne, 132 La. 213, 61 So. 206, 44
L.R.A., N.S. 604 (Sup. Ct. 1913). The question is one of
constitutional power rather than procedural expediency.
No one would contend that the court has an absolute
right to assess unliquidated damages in an action at law
for a personal tort; and yet can it be other than that
when the court in these circumstances imposes its
judgment on the unwilling plaintiff? We are not
concerned here with an [24 N.J. 88] action for liquidated
damages, or damages fixed by a mere mathematical
calculation from ascertained data or capable of certain
computation on the record made, or a submission to the
court without a jury on a stipulation of the facts. See 3
Am. Jur., Appeal and Error, section 1180.
If the trial judge has the power asserted here, so also is it
the province of this court on a review of the sufficiency
or insufficiency of an award by a jury. The issue of the
weight of the evidence is now cognizable on appeal.
Hager v. Weber, supra. R.R. 1:5-3 provides that a
verdict of a jury "shall be set aside as against the weight
of the evidence if, having given due regard to the
opportunity of the trial court and the jury to pass upon
the credibility of the witnesses, it clearly and
convincingly appears that the verdict was the result of
mistake, partiality, prejudice or passion." And yet this
court does not undertake to supply the deficiency in the
assessment of the damages by the trial judge, nor
remand the cause for a reassessment by the judge, but
directs a new jury trial limited to damages.
I concur in this result.