I agree wholeheartedly with the majority's conclusion
that the plaintiff, Rhodda Thompson, is entitled to a
new trial on her Title VII claims because the district
court permitted Juror Leiter to sit without obtaining the
kind of unequivocal assurances of impartiality that are
required to assure an unbiased trier of fact. Along the
way toward reaching that conclusion, however, the
majority expresses skepticism about the wisdom of the
principle the Supreme Court articulated in United States
v. Martinez-Salazar, 528 U.S. 304, 120 S.Ct. 774, 145
L.Ed.2d 792 (2000), to the effect that there is no rule
compelling a defendant to use or to refrain from using a
peremptory challenge on a particular basis, or when a
particular set of facts is present. Id. at 314, 120 S.Ct. 774.
Instead, the Court held, after the party has failed in an
effort to convince the trial court to strike a juror for
cause, that party has "the option of letting [the
prospective juror] sit on the petit jury and, upon
conviction, pursuing a Sixth Amendment challenge on
appeal." Id. at 315, 120 S.Ct. 774. Martinez-Salazar
ultimately held that once a defendant has elected to use a
peremptory challenge creatively, the only question that
survives is whether the jury that actually sat was an
unbiased one.
I do not share the majority's reservations about this rule,
and I therefore support strongly the majority's decision
to reserve any exploration of this rule for another day
(assuming for the sake of argument that the Supreme
Court has left us any room in which to operate). In my
opinion, there is much to commend in the system the
Supreme Court sketched out. It is important to
remember that no problem arises until the party has
challenged a prospective juror for cause and the court
has rejected the challenge. The district court thus cannot
be sand-bagged into permitting a biased juror to sit.
Once the court has ruled on all the challenges for cause,
the lawyers representing both sides are left with an array
of prospective jurors. [248 F.3d 628] At that point, each
lawyer must decide how best to use the allotted
peremptory challenges. I see no way of second-guessing
that choice at the appellate level. As the majority
acknowledges, certain prospective jurors might not
reveal enough information on the record to support a
challenge for cause, and yet the lawyer might feel
positive that these individuals would in fact be biased.
Even with respect to the prospective jurors who were
challenged unsuccessfully for cause, the chances that any
of those decisions by the trial court amounted to
reversible error are just that — chances — and the
responsible lawyer cannot count on convincing an
appellate court later that the ruling was in error. In the
end, therefore, there would be no objective way to
second-guess the lawyer's decisions about the way her
peremptory challenges were used. The Supreme Court's
Martinez-Salazar holding quite properly reflects this
fact.
The one issue that I regard as more complex concerns a
plaintiff who does not exhaust her peremptory
challenges. That is not Thompson's situation, but it
occasionally happens that not all peremptories are used.
If there are left-over peremptories and the plaintiff has
failed to convince the court to strike a certain juror for
cause, it is at least imaginable that a decision not to use
an available peremptory challenge on that juror might
amount to a waiver of the right to assert that the juror
should not have sat. As I said, that is not this case. It is
possible that there might be further complications in an
actual case that I cannot envision at this time that would
justify even this kind of strategic decision.
With this qualification, I concur in the court's opinion.