When an uncopyrighted combination of words is
published there is no general right to forbid other
people repeating them — in other words there is no
property in the combination or in the thoughts or facts
that the words express. Property, a creation of law, does
not arise from value, although exchangeable — a matter
of fact. Many exchangeable values may be destroyed
intentionally without compensation. Property depends
upon exclusion by law from interference, and a person is
not excluded from using any combination of words
merely because someone has used it before, even if it
took labor and genius to make it. If a given person is to
be prohibited from making the use of words that his
neighbors are free to make some other ground must be
found. One such ground is vaguely expressed in the
phrase unfair trade. This means that the words are
repeated by a competitor in business in such a way as to
convey a misrepresentation that materially injures the
person who first used them, by appropriating credit of
some kind [248 U.S. 247] which the first user has
earned. The ordinary case is a representation by device,
appearance, or other indirection that the defendant's
goods come from the plaintiff. But the only reason why
it is actionable to make such a representation is that it
tends to give the defendant an advantage in his
competition with the plaintiff and that it is thought
undesirable that an advantage should be gained in that
way. Apart from that the defendant may use such
unpatented devices and uncopyrighted combinations of
words as he likes. The ordinary case, I say, is palming off
the defendant's product as the plaintiff's, but the same
evil may follow from the opposite falsehood — from
saying, whether in words or by implication, that the
plaintiff's product is the defendant's, and that, it seems
to me, is what has happened here.
Fresh news is got only by enterprise and expense. To
produce such news as it is produced by the defendant
represents by implication that it has been acquired by
the defendant's enterprise and at its expense. When it
comes from one of the great news-collecting agencies
like the Associated Press, the source generally is
indicated, plainly importing that credit; and that such a
representation is implied may be inferred with some
confidence from the unwillingness of the defendant to
give the credit and tell the truth. If the plaintiff produces
the news at the same time that the defendant does, the
defendant's presentation impliedly denies to the plaintiff
the credit of collecting the facts and assumes that credit
to the defendant. If the plaintiff is later in western cities
it naturally will be supposed to have obtained its
information from the defendant. The falsehood is a little
more subtle, the injury a little more indirect, than in
ordinary cases of unfair trade, but I think that the
principle that condemns the one condemns the other. It
is a question of how strong an infusion of fraud is
necessary to turn a flavor into a poison. The dose seems
to me strong [248 U.S. 248] enough here to need a
remedy from the law. But as, in my view, the only
ground of complaint that can be recognized without
legislation is the implied misstatement, it can be
corrected by stating the truth; and a suitable
acknowledgment of the source is all that the plaintiff can
require. I think that within the limits recognized by the
decision of the Court the defendant should be enjoined
from publishing news obtained from the Associated
Press for hours after publication by the plaintiff unless it
gives express credit to the Associated Press; the number
of hours and the form of acknowledgment to be settled
by the District Court.