During the course of protracted litigation, one party
discharged the law firm that had been representing it,
and replaced it with two solo practitioners. Prior to its
discharge, the law firm obtained a $2.9 million charging
lien that will be extinguished absent a favorable
disposition for its former client. It moved therefore to
intervene in the continuing litigation as a matter of
right. The district court denied the motion.
This appeal from the denial of that motion raises several
thorny issues: whether a discharged lawyer who has a
charging lien it believes is in jeopardy by ongoing
litigation possesses an interest justifying intervention as
of right in that litigation; whether the discharged
attorney's interests are adequately represented in the
ongoing litigation; and whether the former attorney
moved timely to intervene. A lawyer, like a laborer, is of
course worthy of his hire and is entitled to be paid for
his work. Yet, since the attorney/client relationship
rests on a foundation of trust and confidence, when a
client loses confidence in counsel, public policy generally
demands that the client have the prerogative to [250
F.3d 174] terminate the relationship at any time, without
cause.
Although choosing between these competing notions is
not required to resolve this appeal — resolution of the
other issues will resolve the case — the conflicting
policies presented by these competing notions
nonetheless give context to the discussion that follows.
BACKGROUND
The underlying dispute in this case is between GBJ
Corporation, formerly represented by the professional
corporation Butler, Fitzgerald & Potter (Butler, law
firm, or appellant) and Sequa Corporation. That dispute
arose when Sequa allegedly breached a consulting
contract. Under the consulting agreement, GBJ
Corporation was to provide consulting services to Sequa
on the use of leveraged lease transactions for Sequa to
shelter its tax liability. The main suit has been litigated
before the district court for the better part of nine years,
and now reappears before us following the denial of
Butler's motion before the district court to join the suit
as a party in its own right. The sole issue is whether the
Butler law firm — GBJ's former counsel in its action
against Sequa — may intervene in the suit to protect its
asserted interest in the outcome.
Three years after Butler served the initial complaint
upon Sequa on behalf of GBJ, and in the midst of trial,
on April 17, 1995 GBJ dismissed Butler as counsel. In
June of that year a magistrate judge determined that the
dismissal was without cause and, pursuant to New York
law, see N.Y. Judiciary Law § 475 (McKinney 1983),
fixed a charging lien in the amount of $2,934,695.33 in
favor of Butler upon any recovery GBJ had in its action
against Sequa. The charging lien is the subject matter of
Butler's appeal.
After relieving Butler as lead counsel, GBJ retained two
solo practitioners, Charles Manuel, Esq. (Manuel) and
James Jones, Esq. (Jones), who tried the case before the
district court for 51 days after Butler's dismissal,
eventually procuring a sizable verdict for their client on
the breach of contract claims. See Sequa Corp. v.
Gelmin, No. 91 Civ. 8675, 1996 WL 745448, at *77-78
(S.D.N.Y. Dec.31, 1996). Attorneys Manuel and Jones
subsequently appeared before us when both Sequa and
GBJ appealed portions of the district court's decision on
the merits, and have since served as GBJ's attorneys of
record after we vacated those portions of the district
court's judgment relating to the calculation of GBJ's
damages (tax recapture issue) and the fiduciary
obligations of GBJ's president to Sequa (fiduciary duty
issue). See Sequa Corp. v. GBJ Corp., 156 F.3d 136, 150
(2d Cir.1998). The litigation of the remanded issues
continues to date.
Butler contends that a series of incidents indicated its
charging lien was in jeopardy. It says that in late 1998,
following our August 20, 1998 remand, the newly
retained counsel for GBJ contacted the Butler law firm
for assistance on the fiduciary duty issue. The law firm
asserts that it acquiesced to this request out of a desire to
protect its $2.9 million charging lien, realizing that it
could only recover upon it if GBJ succeeded in the
underlying litigation. Thus, it provided assistance on the
fiduciary duty issue, and on March 26, 1999 attempted
to submit an amicus curiae brief separate from the one
submitted on GBJ's behalf. When the district court
rejected the amicus brief in August 1999, a single
memorandum, apparently a collaboration between
attorney Jones and the Butler law firm, was offered in
support of GBJ's position and filed in mid-September.
[250 F.3d 175] As litigation of the fiduciary duty issue
proceeded, Butler alleges that GBJ's new counsel
solicited the firm's aid in litigating the remaining
dispute, the apparently more complex tax recapture
issue. In a March 31, 1999 order the district court had
referred the tax recapture issue to a Special Master, and
Butler claims that its subsequent assistance to GBJ on
this issue was exhaustive, including: prepping GBJ's
counsel on discovery methods and trial techniques in
advance of a July 1999 hearing before the Special
Master; identifying and arranging for a tax expert to
refute Sequa's expert report; purchasing two hearing
transcripts for GBJ in the course of the sessions before
the Special Master; and drafting GBJ's August 14, 1999
post-hearing memorandum, which was submitted to the
Special Master. Butler provided this aid purportedly
because it had been forced to make a "Hobson's choice":
either expend its own time and money to ensure that
GBJ would succeed in its claims against Sequa, so that
Butler could later recover its charging lien, or do
nothing and likely lose the lien.
Butler avers that as a result of these repeated requests, it
became increasingly concerned regarding the ability of
attorneys Manuel and Jones to litigate GBJ's claims
successfully against Sequa, an adversary the Butler firm
describes as possessing "unlimited financial and
personnel resources." While purportedly not
questioning the competence of the two solo
practitioners, Butler maintains they are not receiving
adequate financial support from their client, and are
either unable or unwilling to litigate the claims without
such support. The law firm further notes that it has
expended approximately 600 hours on the dispute
subsequent to its discharge. Attorneys Manuel and Jones
counter that Butler has exaggerated its role in the
litigation, and declare that they, not Butler, have
performed the lion's share of the work, toiling for a
combined 8,000 hours on the case.
Butler declares that two incidents were the proverbial
straws that broke the camel's back, and induced it to
seek leave of court to cease acting as an outside adviser
to GBJ, and instead intervene in the action in its own
right. The first incident was a request by GBJ in
September 1999 that Butler pay for the Special Master's
fee following the hearing on the tax recapture issue. The
law firm allegedly balked at this request, viewing it as a
further sign of the inability of GBJ to litigate its claims
effectively. It cites the second incident as further proof
of GBJ's dire financial position, that is, the fact that
Sequa, GBJ's adversary, eventually paid the fee. Finally,
on September 13, 1999, attorney Manuel and an
attorney for Butler had an apparent confrontation when
Manuel discovered that Butler was preparing a motion
to intervene, after it had previously assured him that it
would remain disassociated from the litigation. Four
days later, by a letter dated September 17, 1999, Butler
sought leave of the district court to move, pursuant to
Rule 24(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, to
intervene in the underlying action. Butler's letter also
referenced permissive intervention under Rule 24(b),
but the gist of the motion was directed to intervention
as of right under Rule 24(a).
At the November 2, 1999 oral argument before District
Judge Deborah A. Batts on the motion to intervene,
contrary positions were expressed respecting whether
GBJ opposed Butler's motion. Attorney Manuel, as
counsel for GBJ, represented that GBJ's principal, Jeffrey
Gelmin, had "said in no uncertain terms ... that he had
no intention of seeing Butler, Fitzgerald & Potter
intervene in this case." Timothy Butler, who claimed to
represent Gelmin on other matters — and who,
although not a [250 F.3d 176] member of the Butler law
firm, served as an intermediary with that firm — stated
that Gelmin had informed him that he took no position
on the motion to intervene. According to Timothy
Butler, Gelmin had also said that he did not feel that GBJ
was "capable of seeing this through to the end, that we
do not have the resources or the ability to see it
through." Predictably, Sequa opposed the motion to
intervene.
In a December 22, 1999 order Judge Batts denied
Butler's motion to intervene under Rule 24. She ruled
that Butler did not meet three of the four requirements
for Rule 24(a) intervention. From the denial of its
motion, Butler appeals. We affirm.
DISCUSSION
We review the denial of a motion to intervene for abuse
of discretion. United States v. City of New York, 198
F.3d 360, 364 (2d Cir.1999). This standard reflects the
view that district courts, due to their proximity to the
dispute, usually have a better sense of the case's factual
nuances upon which a motion to intervene often turns.
United States v. Pitney Bowes, Inc., 25 F.3d 66, 69 (2d
Cir.1994).
Rule 24(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
governs intervention as a matter of right by a non-party
into an ongoing litigation. It provides that
[u]pon timely application anyone shall be permitted to intervene in
an action ...
(2) when the applicant claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction which is the subject of the action and the applicant is so
situated that the disposition of the action may as a practical matter
impair or impede the applicant's ability to protect that interest,
unless the applicant's interest is adequately represented by existing
parties.
Fed.R.Civ.P. 24(a).
As the language of the rule suggests, a putative
intervenor as of right must meet four criteria: the
applicant must (1) file a timely motion; (2) claim an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action; (3) be so situated that without
intervention the disposition of the action may impair
that interest; and (4) show that the interest is not
already adequately represented by existing parties.
Pitney Bowes, 25 F.3d at 70. A would-be intervenor's
failure to meet all of these requirements justifies the
denial of its motion. Id.
Butler was found deficient in three of the requirements:
specifically, the district court held its motion was
untimely, the law firm had not established it possessed
an interest in the action justifying intervention, and
even if it had such an interest, that interest was already
adequately protected by counsel for GBJ. Because we
think the trial court's ruling finds support under two of
its three rationales, we need not rule on the third one.
I The Interest Requirement
The trial court sustained its denial of Butler's motion by
holding first that "movants have not demonstrated that
they have an `interest' of the sort contemplated by Rule
24." We have not had occasion to address whether a
discharged attorney's charging lien is a sufficient interest
to support intervention as of right into a client's
underlying action. We recognize that there are
arguments both for and against allowing discharged
attorneys to intervene to protect their legal fees, and
those arguments merit comment. But, because we
conclude the order appealed from finds sufficient
support on other grounds, [250 F.3d 177] we need not
resolve that close question in this case.
A. New York Charging Liens
New York's statutory charging lien, see N.Y. Judiciary
Law § 475 (McKinney 1983), is a device to protect
counsel against "the knavery of his client," whereby
through his effort, the attorney acquires an interest in
the client's cause of action. In re City of New York, 5
N.Y.2d 300, 307, 184 N.Y.S.2d 585, 157 N.E.2d 587
(1959). The lien is predicated on the idea that the
attorney has by his skill and effort obtained the
judgment, and hence "should have a lien thereon for his
compensation, in analogy to the lien which a mechanic
has upon any article which he manufactures." Williams
v. Ingersoll, 89 N.Y. 508, 517 (1882).
Butler's charging lien, fixed by the magistrate at $2.9
million, is of obvious value to the law firm. Further, the
lien is clearly put at some risk by the proceedings below,
for under § 475 of the New York Judiciary Law, the law
firm may only collect on the lien in the event of a
verdict in GBJ's favor. If GBJ's claims against Sequa do
not result in a substantial judgment for GBJ, Butler's
charging lien will be extinguished. See N.Y. Judiciary
Law § 475 ("From the commencement of an action ...
the attorney who appears for a party has a lien upon his
client's cause of action ... which attaches to a verdict,
report, determination, decision, judgment or final order
in his client's favor."); see also Gordon v. Shirley Duke
Assocs. (In re Shirley Duke Assocs.), 611 F.2d 15, 18 (2d
Cir.1979) ("The rationale of section 475 is that an
attorney should have a lien for his litigation efforts that
bring a fund into existence; it is upon the fund thus
created, either by judgment or settlement, that the lien is
imposed.").
B. Rule 24(a)
Despite the substantial value of the charging lien, and its
potential impairment by an adverse judgment, it is not
certain whether this lien qualifies as an interest
sufficient to justify Butler's intervention as of right into
the dispute between GBJ and Sequa. To begin with, it is
questionable whether a discharged attorney's
intervention into a former client's action fits within the
language of the Federal Rules. Rule 24(a) provides in
pertinent part that the putative intervenor must "claim[]
an interest relating to the property or transaction which
is the subject of the action." Fed.R.Civ.P. 24(a)
(emphasis added). The interest of discharged counsel
seemingly is not in the subject of the underlying action,
i.e., the contract dispute that precipitated the litigation,
but is rather an interest in recovering delinquent
attorney's fees following an award in favor of its former
client. An analogous case is Restor-A-Dent Dental
Labs., Inc. v. Certified Alloy Prods., Inc., 725 F.2d 871,
876 (2d Cir.1984), in which we affirmed the denial of a
general liability insurer's petition to intervene as of right
in a breach of contract action brought against one of its
insureds. In holding that the insurer did not have an
interest justifying intervention, we relied in part upon
the reasoning that the insurer's interest was only in its
potential liability following an adverse judgment against
its insured, and not in the underlying breach of contract
action. See id. at 875.
Similarly, the interest of discharged counsel in their
attorney's fees is unrelated to the underlying cause of
action. Hence, that interest does not present a
particularly persuasive argument for intervention. Cf.
Crown Fin. Corp. v. Winthrop Lawrence Corp., 531
F.2d 76, 77 (2d Cir.1976) (per curiam) (affirming district
court's denial of petition to intervene by purchaser of
land with lien upon it because purchaser [250 F.3d 178]
did not have an interest in original action in which
creditor gained the security interest in the land). But see
United States v. Eilberg, 89 F.R.D. 473, 474
(E.D.Pa.1980) (holding that law firm may intervene in
suit against former partner based upon contention that
they were entitled to disputed distributive fee, and
rejecting argument that firm only had an interest in the
contractual arrangement amongst firm partners and not
the subject of the underlying action).
Under state law, however, Butler's charging lien may
indeed constitute an interest in the underlying action
itself. New York precedent, which governs attorney's
charging liens issued by federal courts in New York, see
Itar-Tass Russian News Agency v. Russian Kurier, Inc.,
140 F.3d 442, 448-49 (2d Cir.1998), defines a charging
lien as giving an "equitable ownership interest in the
client's cause of action," rather than providing for a
mere "priority of payment" in favor of the attorney,
LMWT Realty Corp. v. Davis Agency Inc., 85 N.Y.2d
462, 467-68, 626 N.Y.S.2d 39, 649 N.E.2d 1183 (1995).
Under his reasoning a client who enlists the services of
counsel on a standard one-third contingency fee
arrangement equitably assigns a proportionate share of
the cause of action to counsel. The client is left with
only the remaining balance of any eventual judgment
after the attorney receives his agreed upon share. In re
City of New York, 5 N.Y.2d at 307-08, 184 N.Y.S.2d
585, 157 N.E.2d 587. Butler's charging lien therefore
represents at least arguably an equitable interest in the
underlying cause of action.
C. Client's Control of Litigation
Distinct from the question of whether a charging lien
falls within the language of Rule 24 are the public policy
repercussions that arise when discharged counsel is
permitted to intervene as of right in his former client's
action to protect an interest in legal fees. The Fifth
Circuit appears to be the only federal appellate court to
have grappled expressly with the problem of terminated
attorneys as putative intervenors. Gilbert v. Johnson,
601 F.2d 761, 767 (5th Cir.1979) (discharged attorney
may intervene as of right when he has a lien upon his
former client's cause of action); Gaines v. Dixie Carriers,
Inc., 434 F.2d 52, 54 (5th Cir.1970) (per curiam)
(intervention as of right by former counsel based upon
contingent fee contract). The Ninth Circuit has avoided
the issue on two occasions. Venegas v. Skaggs, 867 F.2d
527, 531 (9th Cir.1989), aff'd sub nom. Venegas v.
Mitchell, 495 U.S. 82, 110 S.Ct. 1679, 109 L.Ed.2d 74
(1990); Stockton v. United States, 493 F.2d 1021, 1024
(9th Cir.1974). But while the Fifth Circuit has adhered
to its holdings in Gaines and Gilbert allowing
intervention, that Circuit has more recently questioned
whether a discharged attorney's intervention into a
former client's action contravenes prudent public policy.
See Keith v. St. George Packing Co., 806 F.2d 525, 526
(5th Cir.1986) ("Although Gaines may not represent the
most persuasive use of Fed.R.Civ.P. 24, it binds us as the
law of this Circuit until modified en banc.").
We agree that substantial policy interests are implicated
by allowing a discharged attorney to intervene in a
former client's action as a matter of right. In the case of
a charging lien, an attorney's interest is aligned with that
of his former client, and presumably the attorney's selfinterest
would dictate it not deliberately impair the
litigant's chance of recovery. Yet, an intervenor-counsel
might advance arguments either not raised, or even in
conflict with those already made, unintentionally
undermining the current trial strategy of his former
client. Cf. Gilbert, 601 F.2d at 768 [250 F.3d 179] (Rubin,
J., specially concurring) ("If there is an absolute right to
intervene, the former lawyer may attempt to assert new
issues or indeed to interfere with the management of the
lawsuit by his successor as if he were a co-owner of the
claim.").
Further, although the intervenor counsel and the client
might both desire the client's ultimate success, their
cost-benefit calculuses may well diverge. While the law
firm's sole interest is generally in a financial recovery
upon the charging lien, the decision-making of the
former client may incorporate other factors. The client
might, for example, elect to forego pecuniary
remuneration for equitable relief or other nonmonetary
compensation, or might simply wish to
discontinue litigation in light of ever-mounting
inconvenience and expense. Such considerations would
be of little relevance to the former counsel, who would
wish to press the case to a final judgment of either
financial reward or ultimate defeat. These competing
concerns might lead to a litigation impasse or to the
subjugation of the client's interests to that of its former
counsel. Cf. Pinto v. Allstate Ins. Co., 221 F.3d 394, 398-
99 (2d Cir.2000) (discussing conflicting settlement
interests of an insured and the insurer who has assumed
control over a claim's defense).
GBJ has already discharged Butler as counsel. To allow
Butler to reappear and again argue GBJ's case, this time
nominally in support of Butler's own interests, impugns
the historical privilege of clients to decide who will
represent them, and when that representation shall
cease. See, e.g., Demov, Morris, Levin & Shein v.
Glantz, 53 N.Y.2d 553, 557, 444 N.Y.S.2d 55, 428
N.Ed.2d 387 (1981) ("When an attorney-client
relationship deteriorates to the point where the client
loses faith in the attorney, the client should have the
unbridled prerogative of termination. Any result which
inhibits the exercise of this essential right is patently
unsupportable.").
Since we are not presently persuaded by the reasoning
of those handful of courts that have dealt with this issue,
and the district court's decision is fully justified on other
grounds, we decline today to decide whether the
financial stake of discharged counsel in its former
client's action is the type of interest contemplated by
Rule 24(a). We note parenthetically, however, that an
attorney's charging lien is not the only potential source
of remuneration for terminated counsel. Under New
York law, the attorney still has an avenue to recover
legal fees owed via a plenary action in quantum meruit
for the reasonable value of services rendered. This
remedy, pursued by Butler in state court, is distinct from
the charging lien remedy and the law firm's suit to fix
the charging lien does not preclude a suit in quantum
meruit. Butler, Fitzgerald & Potter v. Gelmin, 235
A.D.2d 218, 219, 651 N.Y.S.2d 525 (1st Dep't 1997).
II Adequacy of Representation
It was not an abuse of discretion for the trial court to
hold that Butler's interests were already adequately
protected by GBJ, an existing party to the dispute, and to
deny the motion to intervene on that basis. While the
burden to demonstrate inadequacy of representation is
generally speaking "minimal," Trbovich v. United Mine
Workers, 404 U.S. 528, 538 n. 10, 92 S.Ct. 630, 30
L.Ed.2d 686 (1972), we have demanded a more rigorous
showing of inadequacy in cases where the putative
intervenor and a named party have the same ultimate
objective, Wash. Elec. Coop., Inc. v. Mass. Mun.
Wholesale Elec. Co., 922 F.2d 92, 98 (2d Cir.1990); U.S.
Postal Serv. v. Brennan, 579 F.2d 188, 191 (2d Cir.1978).
Where there is an identity of interest, as here, the
movant to intervene [250 F.3d 180] must rebut the
presumption of adequate representation by the party
already in the action. See Brennan, 579 F.2d at 191.
Butler concedes, as it must, that its interests are aligned
with those of GBJ, for its recovery upon the charging
lien is predicated upon a favorable result for GBJ on the
claims against Sequa. Cf. Ionian Shipping Co. v. British
Law Ins. Co., 426 F.2d 186, 191 (2d Cir.1970) (denying
intervention as of right to assignee of mortgagee in
action by mortgagor against its insurer, because assignee
and mortgagor had identical interests in that the former
could only recover if the latter's suit was successful). The
law firm insists it rebutted this presumption of adequacy
by demonstrating that GBJ no longer has the resources
to pursue this protracted litigation. In support of this
proposition, appellant avers that its attorneys have
logged over 600 hours working on this case subsequent
to the firm's termination, and that it has made financial
outlays to GBJ on multiple occasions in furtherance of
its former client's cause.
We have not had occasion to lay down a hard-and-fast
rule of what form of showing must be made to rebut a
presumption of adequate representation when there is
an identity of interest between the putative intervenor
and an existing party to the action. Although perhaps
not an exhaustive list, we generally agree with the
holdings of other courts that evidence of collusion,
adversity of interest, nonfeasance, or incompetence may
suffice to overcome the presumption of adequacy. See
United States v. Int'l Bus. Machs. Corp., 62 F.R.D. 530,
538 (S.D.N.Y.1974) (denying motion by law firm to
intervene in client's action for purposes of asserting
work product privilege); see also Daggett v. Comm'n on
Govtl. Ethics & Election Practices, 172 F.3d 104, 111 (1st
Cir.1999) (rejecting argument that there is an exclusive
list of circumstances that rebut a presumption of
adequacy). Regardless of what constitutes the necessary
showing, we are confident that this record does not
support Butler's allegations of inadequacy.
Attorneys Manuel and Jones have represented GBJ's
interests since Butler's discharge in April of 1995. Their
legal efforts have spanned the majority of an 80 day trial,
the subsequent appeal of the judgment resulting from
that trial, and all the proceedings following our 1998
remand. We agree with the district court's observation
that it found nothing in the record to suggest that
defendants' counsel has been or will be less than diligent
in litigating this case.
Appellant and GBJ's counsel paint contrasting pictures
of their respective roles. Appellant asserts it has taken
the lead in advancing GBJ's claims, dictating the day-today
litigation strategy and writing the briefs on the
remanded issues. The solo practitioners, appellant
contends, now serve primarily an editorial function,
simply editing drafts of the briefs before their final
submission to the district court. Attorneys Jones and
Manuel admit that Butler assisted during the brief
drafting process, but insist that the weight of the work,
and the final say in strategy, ultimately has been theirs.
Further, Manuel claims that the apparently elusive
Gelmin, CEO of GBJ, has unequivocally expressed his
opposition to the Butler firm's intervention. Timothy
Butler, the "conduit" between Butler and GBJ, to the
contrary warrants that Gelmin stated he does not have
the financial resources to continue and took no position
on the motion to intervene.
We are unwilling to wade through this sort of
Tweedledee and Tweedledum cross-purposes argument
to unravel who did what work and who said what to
whom. [250 F.3d 181] Nor do we see a rational method
to ascertain whether the assistance provided by Butler,
whatever that may have been, was indeed furnished on
account of GBJ's financial necessity. It may be just as
likely that Butler worked cooperatively with counsel for
GBJ out of a desire to exert control over litigation
strategy. GBJ's present counsel, disputing the necessity
of Butler's aid, attest that they have represented their
client both vigorously and capably to date, and will
continue to do so in the future. The true purpose of the
present motion, they assert, is a desire on the part of
Butler to have unfettered discretion in deciding
litigation tactics. If disagreement with an existing party
over trial strategy qualified as inadequate representation,
the requirement of Rule 24 would have no meaning.
United States v. Yonkers Bd. of Educ., 902 F.2d 213, 218
(2d Cir.1990).
Further, while we agree in principle that an existing
party's proven lack of financial resources to continue
litigation may signify inadequate representation, see,
e.g., Teague v. Bakker, 931 F.2d 259, 262 (4th Cir.1991),
we do not believe the limited financial outlays provided
here by Butler necessarily prove GBJ's inability to
litigate this case effectively in the future. Attorney
Manuel cryptically indicated in the proceedings below
that the attorney/client privilege prohibited him from
divulging why his client did not provide funds for copies
of the transcript before the Special Master or for the
Special Master's fee. He did state that Butler's portrayal
of the financial dealings between GBJ and counsel was
inaccurate. Hence, we conclude that appellant's limited
financial advances, absent further evidence of the alleged
precarious economic position of GBJ, are insufficient to
rebut the presumption of adequate representation.
In its appellate brief, Butler charges that it should not be
penalized for having assisted GBJ, because absent this
assistance GBJ's case would have been in complete
disarray by this time. We do not view a holding denying
intervention as penalizing Butler for the aid it has
provided. Rather, such a holding would simply indicate
that by providing such assistance, Butler has made it
impossible for this Court to perceive GBJ's alleged
deficiency, in light of the fact that its position has been
effectively litigated to date.
Moreover, the district court resolved these competing
claims in favor of GBJ, and by finding that GBJ's
attorneys would continue to litigate this case diligently,
it implicitly further found that counsel has both the
requisite resources and ability to do so. The district
court exercised its discretion by holding that Butler
failed to rebut the presumption of adequate
representation. Cf. Brennan, 579 F.2d at 191
("Determination of the adequacy of existing
representation necessarily involves an assessment of
factors which are within the discretion of the district
court."). We cannot say that such exercise was an abuse
of discretion.1
III Timeliness
The district court also did not abuse its discretion in
holding that, even [250 F.3d 182] had the other three
requirements of Rule 24(a) been met, Butler's motion
should be denied as untimely. A trial court's broad
discretion in assessing the timeliness of a motion to
intervene is not a subject that easily lends itself to a
precise definition. Weisshaus v. Swiss Bankers Ass'n (In
re Holocaust Victim Assets Litig.), 225 F.3d 191, 198 (2d
Cir.2000); accord D'Amato v. Deutsche Bank, 236 F.3d
78, 84 (2d Cir.2001). Factors that inform the timeliness
determination include: how long the motion to
intervene was delayed, whether the existing parties were
prejudiced by that delay, whether the movant will be
prejudiced if the motion is denied, and unusual
circumstances militating either for or against a finding
of timeliness. Pitney Bowes, 25 F.3d at 70.
Butler's delay was unreasonable, the trial court believed,
because it knew of its interest in the ongoing action
when the charging lien was imposed in 1995, and it
should have known no later than late 1998 that its
interests might not be adequately represented. See Sequa
Corp. v. Gelmin, No. 91 Civ. 8675, slip op. at 4
(S.D.N.Y. Dec. 22, 1999). Contending this finding was
error, Butler maintains that it did not realize the threat
to its interests until the summer of 1999, when GBJ first
solicited financial support from it. When appellant may
actually have realized the threat to its lien, however,
does not necessarily control the length of delay finding.
Delay is not measured solely subjectively because, if that
were the test, a putative intervenor could always claim it
did not know it needed to intervene until the eve of its
motion. Cf. Catanzano v. Wing, 103 F.3d 223, 232 (2d
Cir.1996) ("Among the most important factors in a
timeliness decision is `the length of time the applicant
knew or should have known of his interest before
making the motion.'") (quoting Farmland Dairies v.
Comm'r of N.Y. State Dep't of Agric. & Mkts., 847 F.2d
1038, 1044 (2d Cir.1988)) (emphasis added).
We agree with the district court that Butler realized or
should have realized the threat to its charging lien, based
on GBJ's alleged inadequate representation, sometime
shortly after our August 20, 1998 remand. As Butler
acknowledges, it began assisting counsel for GBJ in late
1998, and attempted to submit an amicus brief to the
district court the following March. We believe that
GBJ's purported solicitation of help from a law firm that
it had previously discharged should have alerted Butler
to any possible danger that its charging lien might not
be adequately represented. Appellant's subsequent
attempt at filing an amicus brief reveals it did in fact
believe that GBJ's representation of Butler's interests
was inadequate. But the request to intervene was made
in September 1999, more than a year after Butler should
have realized the threat, if any, to its charging lien.
Concededly the length of an intervenor's delay is only
one of the factors controlling timeliness. United States
v. New York, 820 F.2d 554, 557 (2d Cir.1987).
Nevertheless, the length of delay is an important factor
for timeliness and Butler's failure to act promptly weighs
against it in the timeliness calculus. See Catanzano, 103
F.3d at 232-33 (denying intervention after motion was
filed 18 months after applicant knew of interest in
litigation); see also In re Holocaust Litig., 225 F.3d at
199 (eight month delay before motion to intervene);
Pitney Bowes, 25 F.3d at 71 (constructive knowledge of
interest 15 months prior to motion to intervene and
actual knowledge for eight months); New York, 820
F.2d at 557 (15 month delay after applicant knew or
should have known of interest).
The second timeliness factor, the prejudice to existing
parties resulting from the movant's delay, is only
minimally implicated by the instant motion, as the law
firm [250 F.3d 183] told the trial court it did not wish by
its motion to undo any prior matters already resolved in
the case. In this nearly nine-year-old litigation,
however, allowing Butler to intervene, at what the
district court called the "eleventh hour," would cause
more delay, see Sequa Corp., No. 91 Civ. 8675, slip op.
at 4, and provide only the limited benefit of allowing a
second party to argue the merits of GBJ's case.
The third factor gives us some pause, because assuming
Butler's interest is not otherwise adequately represented,
the prejudice to the Butler law firm of not allowing it to
intervene is appreciable. Such prejudice is mitigated by
the fourth factor, the unique circumstances present that
justified the district court's ultimate denial of the
motion. For over a year, Butler and GBJ had
cooperatively litigated this case, until an apparent
disagreement over strategy precipitated Butler's motion
to intervene. Despite this falling-out, counsel for GBJ
have indicated that they would not object to working in
concert with appellant once again. Although we affirm
the district court's denial of Butler's motion to intervene
in its own right, the law firm may still promote GBJ's
interests by again working alongside its former client's
new counsel.
Consequently, considering the nearly one year delay
before making its motion, the late stage of litigation, and
the unusual circumstance of the heretofore cooperative
relationship between Butler and GBJ, it was not an
abuse of the district court's discretion to rule that
appellant's motion to intervene was untimely.
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, for the reasons stated, the order appealed
from is affirmed.