These cases pend on the motions of third party
defendant W. Howard Adams to dismiss and quash
service of process. Those motions are based on
substantially the same grounds alleged in an earlier
motion filed in these cases by defendant Raymond J.
Wise. Defendant Wise's motions were denied in Adams
Dairy Co. v. National Dairy Corp. et al., (W.D.Mo.,
October 25, 1968) 293 F.Supp. 1135, not yet reported.
Service on third party defendant Adams, as was the case
in regard to service on defendant Wise, was obtained
pursuant to Rule 4(d) (7) of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure and Sections 506.500 and 506.510, RSMo, as
enacted in 1967, V.A.M.S. No question is raised
concerning the facts stated in third party defendant
Adams' supporting affidavit that he is now a resident in
Princeton, New Jersey; that at the time of the service of
summons and third party complaints or counterclaim,
he was not a resident of Missouri; that he does not now
and did not at the time of service maintain any office or
place of business in or transact any business in Missouri.
Defendant Adams does not dispute, for jurisdictional
purposes, his presence in Missouri prior to such service
at the time and places alleged in the third party
complaints and counterclaim.
Adams contends that his situation should be
distinguished from that of defendant Wise for the
reason that he is brought into this litigation as a third
party defendant rather than as a defendant named in an
original action. It is obvious that there can be no
difference in the result reached in regard to defendant
Wise's motion and that of third party defendant Adams'
motion unless the distinction which Adams attempts to
make is legally valid. We find and determine that the
asserted distinction is not valid and that third party
defendant Adams' motions should be denied for the
reasons stated in connection with defendant Wise's
motion.
Rule 14 of the Rules of Civil Procedure provides that "a
defending party, as a third-party plaintiff, may cause a
summons and complaint to be served upon a person not
a party to the action who is or may be liable to him for
all or part of the plaintiff's claim against him." Rule 4, of
course, makes exclusive provision for the service of all
summons and complaints including third party
complaints. Third party defendant Adams was served in
accordance with the new Missouri long-arm statute as
authorized by Rule 4 (d) (7).
Third party defendant Adams contends such service is
not valid for the asserted reason that paragraph (f) of
Rule 4 is [293 F.Supp. 1166] in conflict with and a
limitation on the power to obtain service "in the
manner prescribed by the law of the state in which the
district court is held" as provided in Rule 4(d) (7).
Adams relies solely on the isolated case of American
Carpet Mills, Inc. v. Bartow Industrial Development
Corp., (N.D.Geo.1967) 42 F.R.D. 1. That case did hold
that "paragraph 7 of Rule 4(d) * * * is not applicable to
service of third-party complaints under Rule 14,
F.R.Civ.P." Id. at 2. And that case did state that "both the
notes of the Advisory Committee on Rules and the lone
reported case [Monsieur Henri Wines, Ltd. v. S. S.
Covadonga, 222 F.Supp. 139 (N.J.1963)] support this
conclusion."
We do not believe that the result reached or the
conclusion stated in American Carpet Mills is supported
by either the language of Rule 4, the notes of the
Advisory Committee, the Covadonga case, or by reason.
In short, we believe that case was incorrectly decided
and refuse to follow it.
Rule 4(f) provides in its first sentence that "all process
other than a subpoena may be served anywhere within
the territorial limits of the state in which the district
court is held, and, when authorized by a statute of the
United States or by these rules, beyond the territorial
limits of that state." [emphasis ours.] That sentence has
always been a part of Rule 4. The words "or by these
rules" were added in 1963 in order, in the language of
the Advisory Committee, "to assure the effectiveness of
service outside the territorial limits of the State in all the
cases in which any of the rules authorize service beyond
those boundaries."
The portion of the first sentence of Rule 4(f) which
expressly provides that service may be made "beyond the
territorial limits of that state * * * in which the district
court is held * * * when authorized * * * by these rules"
can not be ignored. Rule 4(d) (7), for the reasons we
stated at length in Adams Dairy Co., authorized extra
territorial service pursuant to the new Missouri longarm
statute. Such service, in accordance with the state
procedure, is obviously "authorized * * * by these rules,"
within the meaning of the first sentence of Rule 4(f)
unless such authority is somehow negated by law. That
authority is not limited by the remainder of Rule 4(f) or
any other rule.
The additional language added by the 1963 Amendment
to Rule 4(f) extended the authority of a district court to
obtain still additional extraterritorial service not
theretofore authorized and provided that "in addition"
to the extraterritorial service previously authorized by
the first sentence of Rule 4(f), still further federal service
was obtainable outside the district in which the district
court is held. The first sentence of Rule 4(f), so far as the
Western District of Missouri is concerned, permitted
service of federal process in all portions of the State of
Missouri outside this judicial district and, by its
incorporation by reference of Rule 4(d) (7), also
authorized valid service of process in accordance with all
existing state procedures, including the new Missouri
long-arm statute.
The still additional federal service authorized by the
second sentence added by the 1963 Amendment to Rule
4(f) "in addition" to other available state and federal
process authorized by the first sentence permits service
of process in all territory in the State of Kansas which is
"not more than 100 miles from the place in which the
action is commenced, or to which it is assigned or
transferred for trial."
The second sentence of Rule 4(f) simply added an
additional "bulge" to the territorial jurisdiction within
which the process of this Court, which does not have
territorial jurisdiction over the entire state, may be
served.
The 1963 Notes of the Advisory Committee make clear
that the additional [293 F.Supp. 1167] service authorized
by the 1963 amendment to Rule 4(f) was not intended to
restrict or limit the service of either state or federal
process authorized by any other portion of Rule 4.
The Notes, in connection with its discussion of the
amendment of Rule 4(f), commented that "formerly a
question was raised whether this paragraph, in the
context of the rule as a whole, authorized service in
original Federal actions pursuant to State statutes
permitting service on a State official as a means of
bringing a nonresident motorist defendant into court."
Judge Maris' concurring opinion in McCoy v. Siler, (3rd
Cir. 1963) 205 F.2d 498, 501-502, cert. denied 346 U.S.
872, 74 S.Ct. 120, 98 L.Ed. 380 (1953), was identified as
an opinion in which it had been suggested that Rule 4(f),
as it had been originally worded, did not authorize out
of state service.
The Advisory Committee pointed out that such
"contention found little support" and then cited with
approval numerous cases which had held extraterritorial
service to be valid either by appropriate construction of
"subdivision (f) as it then stood * * * or by reading
paragraph (7) as not limited by subdivision (f)." The
Advisory Committee noted that the language "or by
these rules" had been added to 4(f) for the purpose of
preserving the "salutary results" of the cases to which we
have just referred and added that "a clarified reference to
State law" had also been included in 4(d) (7), and
amended subdivisions (e) and (f). We need not discuss
those clarifications further in this case because we
covered that ground fully in Adams Dairy Co. The
whole point is that the Advisory Committee went out of
its way to make clear that service pursuant to available
state procedures was not limited in any way by any rule
and that service under such procedures was fully
recognized and authorized.
The limitation notion suggested in Judge Maris'
concurring opinion in McCoy was authoritatively laid to
rest in Giffin v. Ensign, (3rd Cir. 1956) 234 F.2d 307,
one of the cases approvingly cited in the Notes of the
Advisory Committee. The court there stated that "the
only question is whether a reasonable man must
construe Rule 4(f) as so limiting Rule 4(d) (7) that it
cannot apply to the situation of these nonresident
defendants." In regard to the limitation notion
subsequently applied in American Carpet Mills, Inc., the
court held:
Judge Maris's position in McCoy v. Siler is carefully reasoned and
he insists that Rule 4(f) does limit Rule 4(d) (7) but we are now
persuaded that such a limitation was not intended and is not
logically inescapable. We think that it can be said fairly that Rule
4(f) does not address itself to or cover nonresident procedures
authorized by State law, which are the subject of Rule 4(d) (7). That
conclusion, and no more, is needed to decide this case. The service
was lawful. [234 F.2d at 311.]
It is significant that the Advisory Committee cited
Pasternack v. Dalo (W.D.Pa.1955) 17 F.R.D. 420, with
approval in its explanatory note to Rule 4(f). That case,
as does this, specifically involved the validity of the
service of a third party complaint. A limitation notion
similar to that applied in American Carpet Mills, Inc.,
was relied upon by the third party defendant. We
believe Judge Marsh correctly stated that such a notion
"throws Rule 4(d) (7) and Rule 4(f) into conflict with
each other when heretofore they seemed to have a
logical relationship." We, as was Judge Marsh, are
"persuaded that the framers of the federal rules did not
mean to limit Rule 4(d) (7) by Rule 4(f), but on the other
hand they meant to implement and enlarge the service
of process * * outside the territorial limits of the district
* * *. In this light these subsections of Rule 4 are not in
conflict with each other but consistent, and [293 F.Supp.
1168] should thus be construed." [17 F.R.D. at 425].
We also agree that "these subsections of Rule 4 are not
in conflict with each other but consistent, and should
thus be construed."
In addition to the cases cited in the Notes of the
Advisory Committee, see also Brandt v. Olson
(N.D.Iowa 1959) 179 F.Supp. 363 (decided before the
1963 Amendments to Rule 4) and Nortown Steel Supp.
Co. v. Northern Indiana Steel Supply Co. (7th Cir. 1965)
340 F.2d 934 (decided after the 1963 amendments to
Rule 4). Both those cases upheld the validity of
extraterritorial service made of third party complaints
under state long-arm statutes free from any notion that
Rule 4(f), either before or after the 1963 amendments of
that rule, contained any limitation on the service
obtained pursuant to state procedures as authorized by
Rule 4(d) (7).
The language of Rule 4(f) and the Notes of the Advisory
Committee do not support the conclusion stated in
American Carpet Mills, Inc. Nor does the "lone reported
case" of Monsieur Henri Wines, Ltd. v. S. S. Covadonga,
supra, relied on by American Carpet Mills, Inc., support
its conclusion. Covadonga merely held that the
utilization of the new "bulge" service of Rule 4(f) was
consistent with the Admiralty Rules and that service
thereby authorized was valid in an admiralty
proceeding.
American Carpet Mills, Inc. has never been followed or
even cited by any subsequent case. We decline to do so
in this case for the reasons we have stated. The
principles stated in Adams Dairy Co. are applicable to
this case. We incorporate what was there said in this
opinion by this reference.
For the reasons stated, it is
Ordered that defendant Adams' pending motions to
dismiss and to quash service of process should be and
are hereby denied.