I agree that there should be a reversal, but would place
the reversal on quite narrow grounds. It is undesirable
to lay down prematurely major premises based on
shifting ideologies in the choice of law. True, Chief
Judge FULD in his concurring opinion in the Tooker
case (Tooker v. Lopez, 24 N.Y.2d 569, 583, at p. 584)
took the view that there had already occurred sufficient
experience to lay down some rules of law which would
reduce the instability and uncertainty created by the
recent departures from traditional lex loci delictus. This
case, arising so soon after, shows that the permutations
in accident cases, especially automobile accident cases, is
disproof that the time has come.
Problems engendered by the new departures have not
gone unnoticed and they are not confined to the courts
of this State (Juenger, Choice of Law in Interstate Torts,
118 U. Pa. L. Rev. 202, 214-220). They arise not merely
because any new departure of necessity creates
problems, but much more because the departures have
been accompanied by an unprecedented competition of
ideologies, largely of academic origin, to explain and
reconstruct a whole field of law, each purporting or
aspiring to achieve a single universal principle.
Babcock v. Jackson (12 N.Y.2d 473), an eminently
correctly and justly decided case, applied the then
current new doctrine of grouping of contacts. Troubles
arose only when the universality of a single doctrine was
assumed (Macey v. Rozbicki, 18 N.Y.2d 289; Dym v.
Gordon, 16 N.Y.2d 120). By the time of Miller v. Miller
(22 N.Y.2d 12) and the Tooker case (24 N.Y.2d 569,
supra), 
[31 N.Y.2d 131]
 the new doctrine had been
displaced by a still newer one, that of governmental
interests developed most extensively by the late
Brainerd Currie, and the court was deeply engaged in
probing the psychological motivation of legislatures of
other States in enacting statutes restricting recoveries in
tort cases. Now, evidently, it is suggested that this State
and other States may have less parochial concerns in
enacting legislation restricting tort recoveries than had
been believed only a short time ago. The difficulties this
case has given the courts below, and now this court,
stems, it is suggested, more from a concern in sorting
out ideologies than in applying narrow rules of law in
the traditional common-law process (Juenger, op. cit.,
supra, at p. 233).
What the Babcock case (12 N.Y.2d 473, supra) taught
and what modern day commentators largely agree is
that lex loci delictus is unsoundly applied if it is done
indiscriminately and without exception. It is still true,
however, that lex loci delictus is the normal rule, as
indeed Chief Judge FULD noted in the Tooker case (24
N.Y.2d 569, supra), to be rejected only when it is evident
that the situs of the accident is the least of the several
factors or influences to which the accident may be
attributed (for discussion, see dissenting opn. in Tooker
v. Lopez, 24 N Y 2d, at pp. 595-596). Certain it is that
States are not concerned only with their own citizens or
residents. They are concerned with events that occur
within their territory, and are also concerned with the
"stranger within the gates" (Juenger, op. cit., supra, at
pp. 209-210).
In this case, none would have ever assumed that New
York law should be applied just because one of the two
defendants was a New York resident and his automobile
was New York insured, except for the overbroad
statements of Currie doctrine in the Tooker case (24
N.Y.2d 569, supra), stemming from one particular
school of academic thinking in the field of conflicts law
(see the concurring opn. by Judge BURKE in the Tooker
case, 24 N Y 2d, at pp. 586-592, and for that matter, the
dissenting opn. by Judge BERGAN, in this case).
Consequently, I agree that there should be a reversal and
the defenses allowed to stand. The conclusion, however,
rests simply on the proposition that plaintiff has failed
by her allegations to establish that the relationship to
this State was sufficient 
[31 N.Y.2d 132]
 to displace the
normal rule that the lex loci delictus should be applied,
the accident being associated with Ontario, from
inception to tragic termination, except for adventitious
facts and where the lawsuit was brought.