The defendant corporation is organized under the laws
of Pennsylvania, but is qualified to do business and
maintains an office in New York. Plaintiff is an
individual residing and doing business in Virginia. The
accident in which plaintiff alleges to have been damaged
occurred in Lynchburg, Virginia. Plaintiff brought this
action in the Federal District Court in New York.
Section 11 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 78,
carried over into the Judicial Code, ยง 24, 28 U.S.C. ยง 41
(1), confers jurisdiction upon federal district courts of all
actions at law between citizens of different states. The
Court does not suggest that the federal district court in
New York lacks jurisdiction under this statute or that
the venue was improper in this case. 28 U.S.C. ยง 112. Cf.
Neirbo Co. v. Bethlehem Corp., 308 U.S. 165.[330 U.S.
513] But it holds that a district court may abdicate its
jurisdiction when a defendant shows to the satisfaction
of a district court that it would be more convenient and
less vexatious for the defendant if the trial were held in
another jurisdiction. Neither the venue statute nor the
statute which has governed jurisdiction since 1789
contains any indication or implication that a federal
district court, once satisfied that jurisdiction and venue
requirements have been met, may decline to exercise its
jurisdiction. Except in relation to the exercise of the
extraordinary admiralty and equity powers of district
courts, this Court has never before held contrary to the
general principle that "the courts of the United States
are bound to proceed to judgment, and to afford redress
to suitors before them, in every case to which their
jurisdiction extends. They cannot abdicate their
authority or duty in any case in favor of another
jurisdiction." Hyde v. Stone, 20 How. 170, 175, quoted
with approval in Chicot County v. Sherwood, 148 U.S.
529, 534. See also Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U.S. 11;
Baltimore & O.R. Co. v. Kepner, 314 U.S. 44; Evey v.
Mexican C.R. Co., 81 F. 294.1 Never until today has this
Court held, in actions for money damages for violations
of common law or statutory rights, that a district court
can abdicate its statutory duty to exercise its jurisdiction
for the alleged convenience of the defendant to a
lawsuit. Compare Slater v. Mexican National R. Co., 194
U.S. 120.
For reasons peculiar to the special problems of admiralty
and to the extraordinary remedies of equity, the courts
exercising admiralty and equity powers have been
permitted [330 U.S. 514] at times to decline to exercise
their jurisdiction. Canada Malting Co. v. Paterson S.S.
Co., 285 U.S. 413; Rogers v. Guaranty Trust Co., 288
U.S. 123; cf. Williams v. Green Bay & W.R. Co., 326
U.S. 549. This exception is rooted in the kind of relief
which these courts grant and the kinds of problems
which they solve. See Meredith v. Winter Haven, 320
U.S. 228, 235; Burford v. Sun Oil Co., 319 U.S. 315, 333
n. 29. Courts of equity developed to afford relief where a
money judgment in the common law courts provided no
adequate remedy for an injured person.2 From the
beginning of equitable jurisdiction up to now, the
chancery courts have generally granted or withheld their
special remedies at their discretion; and "courts of
admiralty .. . act upon enlarged principles of equity."
O'Brien v. Miller, 168 U.S. 287, 297. But this Court has,
on many occasions, severely restricted the discretion of
district courts to decline to grant even the extraordinary
equitable remedies. Meredith v. Winter Haven, supra,
and cases there cited at 234, 235. Previously federal
courts have not generally been allowed the broad and
indefinite discretion to dispose even of equity cases
solely on a trial court's judgment of the relative
convenience of the forum for the parties themselves.
For a major factor in these equity decisions has been the
relative ability of the forum to shape and execute its
equitable remedy. Cf. Rogers v. Guaranty Trust Co.,
supra.
[330 U.S. 515] No such discretionary authority to decline
to decide a case, however, has, before today, been vested
in federal courts in actions for money judgments
deriving from statutes or the common law.3 To engraft
the doctrine of forum non conveniens upon the statutes
fixing jurisdiction and proper venue in the district
courts in such actions, seems to me to be far more than
the mere filling in of the interstices of those statutes.4
It may be that a statute should be passed authorizing the
federal district courts to decline to try so-called common
law cases according to the convenience of the parties.
But whether there should be such a statute, and
determination of its scope and the safeguards which
should surround it, are, in my judgment, questions of
policy which Congress should decide. There are strong
arguments presented by the Court in its opinion why
federal courts exercising their common law jurisdiction
should have the discretionary powers which equity
courts have always possessed in dispensing equitable
relief. I think equally strong arguments could be
advanced to show that they should not. For any
individual or corporate defendant who does part of his
business in states other than the one in which he [330
U.S. 516] is sued will almost invariably be put to some
inconvenience to defend himself. It will be a poorly
represented multi-state defendant who cannot produce
substantial evidence and good reasons fitting the rule
now adopted by this Court tending to establish that the
forum of the action against him is most inconvenient.
The Court's new rule will thus clutter the very threshold
of the federal courts with a preliminary trial of fact
concerning the relative convenience of forums. The
preliminary disposition of this factual question will, I
believe, produce the very kind of uncertainty, confusion,
and hardship which stalled and handicapped persons
seeking compensation for maritime injuries following
this Court's decision in Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen,
244 U.S. 205. The broad and indefinite discretion left to
federal courts to decide the question of convenience
from the welter of factors which are relevant to such a
judgment, will inevitably produce a complex of close and
indistinguishable decisions from which accurate
prediction of the proper forum will become difficult, if
not impossible. Yet plaintiffs will be asked "to determine
with certainty before bringing their actions that factual
question over which courts regularly divide among
themselves and within their own membership. As
penalty for error, the injured individual may not only
suffer serious financial loss through the delay and
expense of litigation, but discover that his claim has
been barred by the statute of limitations in the prmper
forum while he was erroneously pursuing it elsewhere."
Davis v. Dept. of Labor & Industries, 317 U.S. 249, 254.
This very case illustrates the hazards of delay. It must be
begun anew in another forum after the District Court,
the Circuit Court of Appeals, and now this Court, have
had their time-consuming say as to the relative
convenience of the forum in which the plaintiff chose to
seek redress. Whether the statute of limitations has run
[330 U.S. 517] against the plaintiff, we do not know. The
convenience which the individual defendant will enjoy
from the Court's new rule of forum non conveniens in
law actions may be thought to justify its inherent delays,
uncertainties, administrative complications and
hardships. But in any event, Congress has not yet said
so; and I do not think that this Court should, 150 years
after the passage of the Judiciary Act, fill in what it
thinks is a deficiency in the deliberate policy which
Congress adopted.5 Whether the doctrine of forum non
conveniens is good or bad, I should wait for Congress to
adopt it.