I believe the courts of Florida had power to adjudicate
the effectiveness of the appointment made in Florida by
Mrs. Donner with respect to all those who were notified
of the proceedings and given an opportunity to be heard
without violating the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.1 If this is correct, it follows
that [357 U.S. 257] the Delaware courts erred in refusing
to give the prior Florida judgment full faith and credit.
U. S. Const., Art. IV, ยง 1; 28 U. S. C. ยง 1738.
Mrs. Donner was domiciled in Florida from 1944 until
her death in 1952. The controversial appointment was
made there in 1949. It provided that certain persons
were to receive a share of the property held by the
Delaware "trustee" under the so-called trust agreement
upon her death. Until she died Mrs. Donner received
the entire income from this property, and at all times
possessed absolute power to revoke or alter the
appointment and to dispose of the property as she
pleased. As a practical matter she also retained control
over the management of the property, the "trustee" in
Delaware being little more than a custodian.2 A number
of the beneficiaries of the appointment, including those
who were to receive more than 95% of the assets
involved, were residents of Florida at the time the
appointment was made as well as when the present suit
was filed. The appointed property consisted of
intangibles which had no real situs in any particular
State although Mrs. Donner paid taxes on the property
in Florida.
The same day the 1949 appointment was made Mrs.
Donner executed a will, which after her death was duly
probated in a Florida court. The will contained a
residuary clause providing for the distribution of all of
[357 U.S. 258] her property not previously bequeathed,
including "any and all property, rights and interest over
which I may have power of appointment which prior to
my death has not been effectively exercised by me . . . ."
Thus if the 1949 appointment was ineffective the
property involved came back into Mrs. Donner's estate
to be distributed under the residuary clause of her will.
As might be anticipated the present litigation arose
when legatees brought an action in the Florida courts
seeking a determination whether the appointment was
valid. The beneficiaries of the appointment, some of
whom live outside Florida, and the Delaware trustee
were defendants. They had timely notice of the suit and
an adequate opportunity to obtain counsel and appear.
In light of the foregoing circumstances it seems quite
clear to me that there is nothing in the Due Process
Clause which denies Florida the right to determine
whether Mrs. Donner's appointment was valid as
against its statute of wills. This disposition, which was
designed to take effect after her death, had very close
and substantial connections with that State. Not only
was the appointment made in Florida by a domiciliary of
Florida, but the primary beneficiaries also lived in that
State. In my view it could hardly be denied that Florida
had sufficient interest so that a court with jurisdiction
might properly apply Florida law, if it chose, to
determine whether the appointment was effectual.
Watson v. Employers Liability Assurance Corp., 348
U.S. 66; Osborn v. Ozlin, 310 U.S. 53. True, the
question whether the law of a State can be applied to a
transaction is different from the question whether the
courts of that State have jurisdiction to enter a
judgment, but the two are often closely related and to a
substantial degree depend upon similar considerations.
It seems to me that where a transaction has as much
relationship to a State as Mrs. Donner's appointment
had to Florida its courts ought to have [357 U.S. 259]
power to adjudicate controversies arising out of that
transaction, unless litigation there would impose such a
heavy and disproportionate burden on a nonresident
defendant that it would offend what this Court has
referred to as "traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice." Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U.S. 457,
463; International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S.
310, 316. So far as the nonresident defendants here are
concerned I can see nothing which approaches that
degree of unfairness. Florida, the home of the principal
contenders for Mrs. Donner's largess, was a reasonably
convenient forum for all.3 Certainly there is nothing
fundamentally unfair in subjecting the corporate trustee
to the jurisdiction of the Florida courts. It chose to
maintain business relations with Mrs. Donner in that
State for eight years, regularly communicating with her
with respect to the business of the trust including the
very appointment in question.
Florida's interest in the validity of Mrs. Donner's
appointment is made more emphatic by the fact that her
will is being administered in that State. It has
traditionally been the rule that the State where a person
is domiciled at the time of his death is the proper place
to determine the validity of his will, to construe its
provisions and to marshal and distribute his personal
property. Here Florida was seriously concerned with
winding up Mrs. Donner's estate and with finally
determining what property was to be distributed under
her will. In fact this suit was brought for that very
purpose.
The Court's decision that Florida did not have
jurisdiction over the trustee (and inferentially the
nonresident beneficiaries) stems from principles stated
the better part [357 U.S. 260] of a century ago in
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714. That landmark case was
decided in 1878, at a time when business affairs were
predominantly local in nature and travel between States
was difficult, costly and sometimes even dangerous.
There the Court laid down the broad principle that a
State could not subject nonresidents to the jurisdiction
of its courts unless they were served with process within
its boundaries or voluntarily appeared, except to the
extent they had property in the State. But as the years
have passed the constantly increasing ease and rapidity
of communication and the tremendous growth of
interstate business activity have led to a steady and
inevitable relaxation of the strict limits on state
jurisdiction announced in that case. In the course of this
evolution the old jurisdictional landmarks have been left
far behind so that in many instances States may now
properly exercise jurisdiction over nonresidents not
amenable to service within their borders.4 Yet further
relaxation seems certain. Of course we have not reached
the point where state boundaries are without
significance, and I do not mean to suggest such a view
here. There is no need to do so. For we are dealing with
litigation arising from a transaction that had an
abundance of close and substantial connections with the
State of Florida.
Perhaps the decision most nearly in point is Mullane v.
Central Hanover Bank & Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306. In
that case the Court held that a State could enter a
personal judgment in favor of a trustee against
nonresident beneficiaries of a trust even though they
were not served with process in that State. So far as
appeared, their only connection with the State was the
fact that the trust was [357 U.S. 261] being administered
there.5 In upholding the State's jurisdiction the Court
emphasized its great interest in trusts administered
within its boundaries and governed by its laws. Id., at
313. Also implicit in the result was a desire to avoid the
necessity for multiple litigation with its accompanying
waste and possibility of inconsistent results. It seems to
me that the same kind of considerations are present here
supporting Florida's jurisdiction over the nonresident
defendants.
Even if it be assumed that the Court is right in its
jurisdictional holding, I think its disposition of the two
cases is unjustified. It reverses the judgment of the
Florida Supreme Court on the ground that the trustee
may be, but need not be, an indispensable party to the
Florida litigation under Florida law. At the same time it
affirms the subsequent Delaware judgment. Although in
form the Florida case is remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with the Court's opinion,
the effect is that the Florida courts will be obliged to
give full faith and credit to the Delaware judgment. This
means the Florida courts will never have an opportunity
to determine whether the trustee is an indispensable
party. The Florida judgment is thus completely wiped
out even as to those parties who make their homes in
that State, and even though the Court acknowledges
there is nothing in the Constitution which precludes
Florida from entering a binding judgment for or against
them. It may be argued that the Delaware judgment is
the first to become final and therefore is entitled to
prevail. But it only comes first because the Court makes
it so. In my judgment the proper thing to do would be to
hold the Delaware case until the Florida courts had an
opportunity to [357 U.S. 262] decide whether the trustee
is an indispensable party. Under the circumstances of
this case I think it is quite probable that they would say
he is not. See Trueman Fertilizer Co. v. Allison, 81
So.2d 734. I can see no reason why this Court should
deprive Florida plaintiffs of their judgment against
Florida defendants on the basis of speculation about
Florida law which might well turn out to be
unwarranted.