My special disagreement with the Court in this case
concerns a matter of judicial administration arising out
of the fact that after the question on the merits had been
considered by the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit,
the same question between the same parties was later
independently again adjudicated by the Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit. I cannot join the Court's
approval of the right of the Seventh Circuit to make
such a re-examination. It is true that in its opinion in
this case and No. 26, Sullivan v. Behimer, decided today,
the Court settles the question over which the two
Courts of Appeals disagreed, so that it should not recur.
This is not, however, an isolated case. A general
principle of judicial administration in the federal courts
is at stake. In addition, while the Court today settles one
problem arising in the application of § 1404 (a), other
questions involving that section may readily give rise to
conflicting [363 U.S. 346] views among the eleven
Courts of Appeals. Under the Court's opinion, for
example, transfer always depends upon the meaning of
the federal venue statutes, and upon the jurisdiction of
the transferee court over the person of the defendant,
which may be a problem of constitutional dimensions,
and there is obviously a substantial opportunity for
conflict between the Courts of Appeals over those
matters. We ought to forestall in other situations of
potential controversy the kind of judicial unseemliness
which this case discloses.
Plaintiffs brought this action for patent infringement in
the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Texas. Defendants moved pursuant to 28 U.
S. C. § 1404 (a) to have it transferred to the Northern
District of Illinois. Finding transfer to be "for the
convenience of parties and witnesses, in the interest of
justice," the Texas District Court granted the motion
and transferred the action to Illinois. Plaintiffs sought a
writ of mandamus in the Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit to require the Texas District Court to set aside
the transfer. In plaintiffs' view the Northern District of
Illinois was not a place where the action "might have
been brought," and thus the Texas District Court had no
power to transfer the action there under § 1404 (a). The
Fifth Circuit fully examined the merits of this claim and
rejected it, holding that in the circumstances before the
court the Northern District of Illinois was a jurisdiction
where the action "might have been brought." Leave to
file a mandamus petition was therefore denied, and the
action was duly transferred. 245 F.2d 737.
Upon the assignment of the action to the calendar of the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, plaintiffs moved that court to disregard the
explicit decision of another District Court in the same
case, sustained by the appropriate Court of [363 U.S.
347] Appeals, and to send the case back to Texas.
Plaintiffs advanced precisely the claim already rejected
by the Fifth Circuit, namely, that the Northern District
of Illinois was not a place where the action "might have
been brought" within the proper meaning of § 1404 (a).
Transfer had, in their view, erroneously been ordered
by the Texas District Court and the power to transfer
erroneously approved by the Fifth Circuit. Plaintiffs'
application was denied by the Illinois District Court.
Still not accepting the decision against them, plaintiffs
again sought an appellate remedy by way of mandamus,
this time in the Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit. Initially, mandamus was denied. On rehearing,
however, the Seventh Circuit held that the prior
decision of the Fifth Circuit was wrong. It held that §
1404 (a) did not authorize transfer to Illinois, and it
ordered the action "remanded" to the Texas District
Court within the Fifth Circuit, from whence it had
come, to go forward there. 260 F.2d 317. That "remand"
is the order which is here on certiorari. 359 U.S. 904.
The Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit has thus
refused to permit an Illinois District Court to entertain
an action transferred to it with the approval, after full
consideration of the problem involved, of the Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The Seventh Circuit
considered no evidence not before the Fifth Circuit in so
deciding. It considered precisely the same issue and
reached a contrary legal conclusion. This was after
explicit prior adjudication of the question at the same
level of the federal system in the same case and between
the same parties. Because the question involved is the
transferability of the action, the consequence of the
Seventh Circuit's disregard of the Fifth Circuit's prior
decision is not only that a question once decided has
been reopened, with all the wasted motion, delay and
[363 U.S. 348] expense which that normally entails.
Unless and until this Court acts, the litigants have no
forum in which trial may go forward. Each Court of
Appeals involved has refused to have the District Court
in its Circuit hear the case and has sent it to a District
Court in the other.
This is the judicial conduct the Court now approves.
The Court does not suggest that the Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit was powerless, was without
jurisdiction, to review, as it did, the question of the
applicability of § 1404 (a) to this case. The occasion for
the Fifth Circuit's review by way of mandamus may
have been, as the Court suggests, "to protect its appellate
jurisdiction," but there can be no question that the Fifth
Circuit undertook to and did resolve on its merits the
controversy between the parties regarding the meaning
of § 1404 (a). Yet the Court decides that the review in
the Fifth Circuit was so much wasted motion, properly
ignored by the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
in arriving at a contrary result. The case is treated just as
if the Fifth Circuit had never considered the questions
involved in it. I am at a loss to appreciate why all the
considerations bearing on the good administration of
justice which underlie the technical doctrine of res
judicata did not apply here to require the Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit to defer to the previous
decision. "Public policy dictates that there be an end of
litigation; that those who have contested an issue shall
be bound by the result of the contest, and that matters
once tried shall be considered forever settled as between
the parties. We see no reason why this doctrine should
not apply in every case where one voluntarily appears,
presents his case and is fully heard, and why he should
not, in the absence of fraud, be thereafter concluded by
the judgment of the tribunal to which he has submitted
his cause." Baldwin v. Traveling Men's Assn., 283 U.S.
522, 525-526. One would suppose that these
considerations would be [363 U.S. 349] especially
important in enforcing comity among federal courts of
equal authority.
The fact that the issue involved is the propriety of a
transfer of the action only makes the case for deference
to the previous decision of a coordinate court in the
same litigation that much stronger. The course of
judicial action now approved by the Court allows
transfer over a persisting objection only when
concurred in by two sets of courts: those in the place
where the case begins, and those in the place to which
transfer is ordered. Not only does the place of trial thus
remain unsettled for an unnecessarily long time to
accommodate double judicial consideration, but, as this
case shows, the result of a disagreement between the
courts involved is that the litigation cannot go forward
at all unless this Court resolves the matter. Surely a
seemly system of judicial remedies, especially appellate
judicial remedies, regarding controverted transfer
provisions of the United States Code should encourage,
not discourage, quick settlement of questions of transfer
and should preclude two Courts of Appeals from
creating, through their disagreement in the same case,
an impasse to the litigation which only this Court can
remove. Section 1404 (a) was meant to serve the ends of
"convenience" and "justice" in the trial of actions. It
perverts those ends to permit a question arising under §
1404 (a), as here, to be litigated, in turn, before a District
Court and Court of Appeals in one Circuit, and a
District Court and Court of Appeals in another Circuit,
one thousand miles distant, thereby delaying trial for a
year and a half, only to have the result of all that
preliminary litigation be that trial may not go forward at
all until this Court shall settle the question of where it
shall go forward, after at least another year's delay.
We are not vouchsafed claims of reason or of the due
administration of justice that require the duplication of
[363 U.S. 350] appellate remedies approved by the Court
in this case. Why is not a single judicial appellate
remedy in a Court of Appeals entirely adequate for one
aggrieved by a transfer? Once the Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit had decided, after due consideration,
that the proper meaning of § 1404 (a) included Illinois
as a place where the action "might have been brought,"
this should have ended the matter, except of course for
this Court's power of review of that decision through
the writ of certiorari, a power which we declined to
exercise in this case. Nor does such a view of right and
wise judicial administration depend upon the nature of
the procedural or even jurisdictional issue in
controversy. Technically, res judicata controls even a
decision on a matter of true jurisdiction. "We see no
reason why a court, in the absence of an allegation of
fraud in obtaining the judgment, should examine again
the question whether the court making the earlier
determination on an actual contest over jurisdiction
between the parties, did have jurisdiction of the subject
matter of the litigation." Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305 U.S. 165,
at 172. See also Baldwin v. Traveling Men's Assn.,
supra, 283 U.S. 522. Surely, a prior decision of a federal
court on the unfundamental issue of venue ought to
receive similar respect from a coordinate federal court
when the parties and the facts are the same. The
question is of the appropriate scheme of judicial
remedies for enforcing rights under a federal remedial
statute aimed at enhancing the fair administration of
justice in the federal courts. It is not consonant with
reason to permit a duplicate appellate procedure for
questions under this statute, thereby forestalling final
decision on a pre-trial matter which ought to be decided
as expeditiously as possible, causing wasteful delay and
expense, and thus depriving the statutory motion to
transfer of effectiveness in achieving the ends of
"convenience" and "justice" for which it was created.