In this case we are asked to consider how the Colorado
River abstention doctrine applies to a derivative
shareholder suit brought in federal court that involves
the same factual predicate, most of the same defendants,
and fundamentally the same legal issues as a derivative
shareholder suit brought by a different plaintiff
shareholder in New York state court. Pursuant to
Colorado River, the district court stayed this action in
favor of the state proceeding. For the reasons stated in
this opinion, we conclude that the district court did not
abuse its discretion in granting the stay.
I. Background
In 2000, Sears, one of the largest retailers of
merchandise and services in the world, expanded its
existing credit business by issuing MasterCards to
individuals holding credit accounts with Sears. Sears'
credit operations had traditionally revolved around the
"Sears Card," issued to Sears customers for use in Sears
stores. Faced with declining sales and an increasingly
crowded retail market, Sears entered the MasterCard
market to help increase revenue and earnings growth.
After experiencing some initial success in the
MasterCard market, in October 2002, Sears announced
that its credit business was negatively impacting the
company's financials. Following this announcement,
Sears' stock price declined significantly.
A number of lawsuits ensued, including four derivative
shareholder suits filed on Sears' behalf. The first,
Brewster v. Lacy, et al., 02/603873, was filed October
23, 2002, in the Supreme Court of the State of New
York ("Brewster"). This matter, Clark v. Lacy, et al., was
filed on November 5, 2002, in the Northern District of
Illinois ("Clark"). Additionally, two separate derivative
suits were filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County.
Both of those cases were consolidated before the same
judge and have been stayed in favor of the New York
litigation.
At issue in this appeal are the similarities between the
Brewster and Clark actions. On behalf of Sears, the
Brewster complaint alleges that certain officers and
directors of Sears breached their fiduciary duties under
New York state law in connection with Sears' decision
to enter the competitive MasterCard market. The
Brewster complaint seeks damages on behalf of Sears
from Sears officers and/or directors. Also premised on
New York law, the Clark complaint alleges that officers
and/or directors of Sears breached their fiduciary duties
with respect to Sears' MasterCard operations and seeks
damages and equitable relief on behalf of Sears. The
Clark complaint names four defendants not named in
the Brewster lawsuit and states three additional causes
of action — abuse of control, gross mismanagement, and
waste of corporate assets. The defendants moved to
dismiss both Brewster and Clark for failure to make
demand on the board of directors as required by New
York law and because the claims are barred by Sears'
charter. On June 23, 2004, the New York court issued its
opinion dismissing Brewster on the grounds that the
derivative plaintiff failed to make pre-suit demand on
Sears' board of directors. The time for appeal is thirty
days. See N.Y. C.P.L.R. 
§
 5513(a).
Additionally, the Clark defendants filed a motion in the
district court to stay this action pursuant to the doctrine
set forth in Colorado River Water Conservation District
v. United States, 424 U.S. 800, 96 S.Ct. 1236, 47 L.Ed.2d
483 (1976), or in the alternative to dismiss. Based on a
review of the parties' briefs and exhibits, the district
court found that the differences between the Brewster
and Clark actions were 
[376 F.3d 685]
 more superficial
than substantive. Using the Colorado River factors, the
district court determined that a stay was warranted in
this case because it would promote judicial
administration. On order of the district court, the Clark
action is stayed until final disposition of the New York
proceedings. Clark now appeals. For the reasons
discussed in this opinion, we affirm the district court's
order.
II. Analysis
We review a district court's ruling on a motion to stay
under the Colorado River doctrine for an abuse of
discretion. Sverdrup Corp. v. Edwardsville Community
Unit Sch. Dist. No. 7, 125 F.3d 546, 550 (7th Cir.1997).
Under the Colorado River abstention doctrine, a federal
court may stay a suit in exceptional circumstances when
there is a concurrent state proceeding and the stay
would promote "wise judicial administration." Colorado
River, 424 U.S. at 818, 96 S.Ct. 1236. While recognizing
the availability of judicial abstention in "exceptional
circumstances," the Court also cautioned that federal
courts have a "virtually unflagging obligation ... to
exercise the jurisdiction given to them." Id. at 817-18, 96
S.Ct. 1236. Reiterating this admonition, the Court stated
in Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital v. Mercury
Construction Corp., 460 U.S. 1, 25, 103 S.Ct. 927, 74
L.Ed.2d 765 (1983): "[W]e emphasize that our task in
cases such as this is not to find some substantial reason
for the exercise of federal jurisdiction by the district
court; rather, the task is to ascertain whether there exist
`exceptional' circumstances, the `clearest of
justifications,' that can suffice under Colorado River to
justify the surrender of that jurisdiction." (emphasis in
original). Given this clear command, "we treat as
paramount the overriding rule that abstention is the
exception." Sverdrup, 125 F.3d at 550. Indeed, "the mere
fact that an action is pending in state court is ordinarily
no bar to parallel federal proceedings." LaDuke v.
Burlington N. R.R. Co., 879 F.2d 1556, 1558 (7th
Cir.1989).
To determine whether a stay is appropriate in a
particular case, a court must conduct a two-part analysis.
First, the court must consider "whether the concurrent
state and federal actions are actually parallel." Id. at
1559, see also Interstate Material Corp. v. City of
Chicago, 847 F.2d 1285, 1287 (7th Cir.1988). Then,
once it is established that the suits are parallel, the court
must consider a number of non-exclusive factors that
might demonstrate the existence of "exceptional
circumstances." See LaDuke, 879 F.2d at 1559. These
factors are: (1) whether the state has assumed
jurisdiction over property; (2) the inconvenience of the
federal forum; (3) the desirability of avoiding piecemeal
litigation; (4) the order in which jurisdiction was
obtained by the concurrent forums; (5) the source of
governing law, state or federal; (6) the adequacy of state-
court action to protect the federal plaintiff's rights; (7)
the relative progress of state and federal proceedings; (8)
the presence or absence of concurrent jurisdiction; (9)
the availability of removal; and (10) the vexatious or
contrived nature of the federal claim. See id. (citing
Lumen Constr., Inc. v. Brant Constr. Co., 780 F.2d 691,
694-95 (7th Cir.1985)).
A. Parallel Actions
Clark contends that the district court abused its
discretion by finding that the Brewster and Clark
actions are parallel. According to Clark, that finding was
improper because the parties and the issues in this case
are more numerous and diverse than in the Brewster
action. Moreover, Clark argues that the relief sought in
the two actions is different. The Brewster 
[376 F.3d 686]
action seeks only monetary relief while the Clark action
requests equitable relief in addition to money damages.
To meet the "parallel" requirement, suits need not be
identical. See Interstate Material Corp., 847 F.2d at
1288. Two suits are considered "`parallel' when
substantially the same parties are contemporaneously
litigating substantially the same issues in another
forum." Id. (quoting Calvert Fire Insurance Co. v.
American Mutual Reinsurance Co., 600 F.2d 1228, 1229
n. 1 (7th Cir.1979)). To be sufficiently similar it is not
necessary that there be "formal symmetry between the
two actions." Lumen, 780 F.2d at 695. Rather, there
should be a "substantial likelihood that the state
litigation will dispose of all claims presented in the
federal case." Id.
After reviewing the two complaints, we agree with the
district court that no meaningful distinction can be
made between the Clark and Brewster lawsuits. First
and foremost, although some of the names appearing on
the two complaints are different, the parties' interests in
the disputes are nearly identical. Parties with "nearly
identical" interests are considered "substantially the
same" for Colorado River purposes. See Caminiti &
Iatarola v. Behnke Warehousing, Inc., 962 F.2d 698,
700-01 (7th Cir.1992) (finding an estate and a business
to be substantially the same parties in disputes involving
legal fees owed by the business where the estate owned
one-fourth of the business). As Brewster and Clark are
derivative shareholder suits, Sears is the true party in
interest in both cases. As such, we consider only Sears'
interests, not the individual interests of the plaintiffs
who brought the actions on Sears' behalf. Clark has not
presented us with any reason why Sears' own interests
would diverge in these two lawsuits.
Nor does the presence of the four additional defendants
in Clark render these lawsuits non-parallel. The
addition of a party or parties to a proceeding, by itself,
does not destroy the parallel nature of state and federal
proceedings. See Schneider Nat'l Carriers, Inc. v. Carr,
903 F.2d 1154, 1156 (7th Cir.1990) (finding cases
parallel where plaintiff named additional defendants in
state action). Again, the requirement is that the parties
be substantially the same — not completely identical.
When we focus on the parties' litigation interests in
these two lawsuits, it is clear that the addition of these
four defendants has little impact on the overall similarity
of the disputes. As with the other defendants, the four
additional defendants have been sued collectively in
their capacity as Sears officers and no individualized
allegations have been made against any of them. Their
inclusion in the federal proceeding does not alter the
case's central issue (the same one presented by the
Brewster action), i.e., whether Sears officers and/or
directors breached their fiduciary duties to Sears in
connection with Sears' entry into the MasterCard
market.
Clark's argument relating to the additional claims
presented in her complaint is equally unavailing. Each
"additional" claim (abuse of control, gross
mismanagement, and waste of corporate assets) is
premised on the defendants' alleged breach of their
fiduciary duties. Cf. Amfesco Industries, Inc. v.
Greenblatt, 172 A.D.2d 261, 568 N.Y.S.2d 593, 596-97
(N.Y.App.Div.1991) (categorizing claims of waste and
mismanagement of corporate assets as breaches of
fiduciary duty). Clark has not presented any authority
that casts doubt on the likelihood that in resolving the
fiduciary duty issue, the state litigation will dispose of all
claims presented in this case. Just as the parallel nature
of the actions cannot be destroyed by simply 
[376 F.3d
687]
 tacking on a few more defendants, neither can it be
dispelled by repackaging the same issue under different
causes of action.
The same is true for Clark's prayer for equitable relief.
Even though an additional remedy is sought in the
federal action, the liability issues (which are the central
legal issues) remain the same in both cases. Moreover,
the relief requested in this case is substantially similar to
that requested in the Brewster action. Although Clark
states in her complaint that "[p]laintiff on behalf of
Sears has no adequate remedy at law," both complaints
request jury trials and seek to recover damages from the
individual defendants. While we are mindful that
remedies need not be plead with specificity, Clark's
vague request for equitable relief does not convince us
that both lawsuits do not in the end seek substantially
the same relief, i.e., damages.
Accordingly, the district court did not abuse its
discretion in finding the Brewster and Clark actions
parallel. We agree with the district court that the thrust
of these lawsuits is the same — they rely on the same
factual predicate to raise substantially similar legal issues
against substantially similar parties. If we were to reach
the opposite conclusion, future federal plaintiffs would
have an incentive to tag on redundant and non-essential
claims, parties, and remedies to create straw distinctions
with an otherwise parallel state proceeding.
B. Exceptional Circumstances
Of course, a conclusion that federal and state
proceedings are parallel only begins the inquiry into
whether a stay is appropriate under Colorado River. We
must now review the district court's determination that
abstention was warranted in this case under the 10-
factor "exceptional circumstances" test. As we examine
the district court's analysis, we are guided by the
Supreme Court's instruction that "[n]o one factor is
necessarily determinative; a carefully considered
judgment taking into account both the obligation to
exercise jurisdiction and the combination of factors
counselling against that exercise is required." Colorado
River, 424 U.S. at 818-19, 96 S.Ct. 1236. "The weight to
be given any one factor is determined solely by the
circumstances of the particular case — there is no
mechanical formula by which to determine when a stay
is appropriate." Schneider Nat'l Carriers, 903 F.2d at
1157 (citing Moses H. Cone, 460 U.S. at 16, 103 S.Ct.
927).
The district court found that a stay would eliminate
piecemeal and duplicative litigation. We agree that this
factor weighs in favor of a stay. As explained above, the
claims in Clark and Brewster are all predicated on the
same showing of a breach of fiduciary duty. Without
staying the federal proceeding, the two actions would
proceed simultaneously — duplicating the amount of
judicial resources required to reach a resolution. If
Brewster is reinstated, the two courts would oversee
similar pre-trial motions and discovery matters and two
different triers of fact would be asked to consider the
same issues, evidence and witnesses. Our Court has held
that this sort of redundancy counsels in favor of a stay.
See Caminiti, 962 F.2d at 701 (concluding that where
the same issues must be resolved in two cases, a stay
would prevent duplicative and wasteful litigation). Not
only would a stay save judicial resources, but it would
also protect against the danger of the two proceedings
reaching inconsistent results, especially in light of the
recent dismissal of Brewster by the New York Supreme
Court.
Next, we agree with the district court's determination
that because both cases are 
[376 F.3d 688]
 governed by
New York law, it is better to defer to the New York
courts to consider the issues presented. "[A] state court's
expertise in applying its own law favors a Colorado
River stay." Day v. Union Mines, Inc., 862 F.2d 652, 660
(7th Cir.1988). In this case, it makes more sense to allow
a New York state court to resolve whether under New
York law pre-suit demand was excused and whether a
claim for breach of fiduciary duty has been stated against
the defendants.
As the district court also noted, the Brewster action was
filed first, albeit by only a few weeks. At best, this factor
is neutral, but it does not push us towards allowing the
federal case to proceed. The district court also found
that a stay was warranted because the "claims here can
be adjudicated in New York, and the New York claims
cannot be removed here." Clark does not dispute that
the claims in this proceeding may be brought in New
York state court. Not only does the availability of
concurrent jurisdiction weigh in favor of a stay, so does
the inability to remove the New York action to federal
court. See Day, 862 F.2d at 659-60 (there is a "policy
against hearing a federal claim which is related to
ongoing non-removable state proceedings").
The district court found the remaining factors to be
neutral. Of these factors, Clark most vigorously contests
the district court's determination with respect to the
relative convenience of the federal forum. To support
her argument that the federal forum is more convenient,
Clark points out that ten of the fifteen defendants live in
this district and that many of the relevant documents
and witnesses are located at Sears' Illinois headquarters.
While this may be true, the district court's finding was
not improper. The Brewster action will continue in
New York regardless of whether the Clark action is
stayed in Illinois. Moreover, the thrust of Clark's
argument regarding convenience of the Illinois forum
(as well as her arguments relating to other factors) is
that the district court assigned this factor insufficient
weight in the its analysis. However, a disagreement over
weight assigned to a factor by the district court does not
necessarily amount to an abuse of discretion. Given the
flexible nature of the ten-factor balancing test, we are
reluctant to tinker with the district court's assignment of
weight to any particular factor.
The remaining factors can be disposed of summarily. No
persuasive arguments have been presented as to why
any of them would counsel against a stay in this case.
Clark does not dispute that two of them — jurisdiction
over property and vexatious litigation — are indeed
neutral. Moreover, there is no fear that Sears' rights will
not be adequately protected in the state proceeding as
the same questions of law and fact are presented as in
the federal case and the state court can resolve these
questions just as effectively. Lastly, as the motion to
dismiss has been fully briefed, argued, and decided in
Brewster, the progress of the state court proceeding is
currently more advanced than that of the federal action.
Accordingly, since the state and federal proceedings at
issue are parallel and a stay would promote wise judicial
administration, we decline to hold that the district court
abused its discretion in finding that the exceptional
nature of this case justified a stay. The district court
appropriately addressed the Colorado River factors,
applying more significant analysis to those factors most
relevant in this case. Moreover, a stay is a measured
approach that protects the substantial rights of the
parties and allows Clark the possibility of continuing
this litigation once the Brewster action reaches a
conclusion in New York.
[376 F.3d 689]
 III. Conclusion
We AFFIRM the district court's stay order.