The petitioner, Sandra Adickes, brought suit against the
respondent, S. H. Kress & Co., to recover damages for
alleged violations of 42 U. S. C. § 1983. In one count of
her complaint she alleged that a police officer of the City
of Hattiesburg, Mississippi, had conspired with
employees of Kress to deprive her of rights secured by
the Constitution and that this joint action of a state
official and private individuals was sufficient to
constitute a violation of § 1983. She further alleged in
another count that Kress' refusal to serve her while she
was in the company of Negroes was action "under color
of" a custom of refusing to serve Negroes and whites
together in Mississippi, and that this action was a
violation of § 1983. The trial judge granted a motion for
summary judgment in favor of Kress on the conspiracy
allegation and, after full presentation of evidence by the
petitioner, granted a motion for a directed verdict in
favor of the respondent on the custom allegation. Both
decisions rested on conclusions that there were no issues
of fact supported by sufficient evidence to require a jury
trial. I think the trial court and the Court of Appeals
which affirmed were wrong in allowing summary
judgment on the conspiracy allegation. And—assuming
for present purposes that the trial court's statutory
interpretation concerning "custom or usage" was
correct—it was also error to direct a verdict on that
count. In my judgment, on this record, petitioner should
have been permitted to have the jury consider both her
claims.
Summary judgments may be granted only when "the
pleadings, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and
admissions on file, together with the affidavits, if any,
show that there is no genuine issue as to any material
fact . . . ." Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 56 (c). Petitioner in this
case alleged that she went into Kress in the company of
Negroes [398 U.S. 176] and that the waitress refused to
serve her, stating "[w]e have to serve the colored, but
we are not going to serve the whites that come in with
them." Petitioner then alleged that she left the store with
her friends and as soon as she stepped outside a
policeman arrested her and charged her with vagrancy.
On the basis of these facts she argued that there was a
conspiracy between the store and the officer to deprive
her of federally protected rights. The store filed
affidavits denying any such conspiracy and the trial
court granted the motion for summary judgment,
concluding that petitioner had not alleged any basic facts
sufficient to support a finding of conspiracy.
The existence or nonexistence of a conspiracy is
essentially a factual issue that the jury, not the trial
judge, should decide. In this case petitioner may have
had to prove her case by impeaching the store's
witnesses and appealing to the jury to disbelieve all that
they said was true in the affidavits. The right to
confront, cross-examine and impeach adverse witnesses
is one of the most fundamental rights sought to be
preserved by the Seventh Amendment provision for
jury trials in civil cases. The advantages of trial before a
live jury with live witnesses, and all the possibilities of
considering the human factors, should not be eliminated
by substituting trial by affidavit and the sterile bareness
of summary judgment. "It is only when the witnesses are
present and subject to cross-examination that their
credibility and the weight to be given their testimony
can be appraised. Trial by affidavit is no substitute for
trial by jury which so long has been the hallmark of
`even handed justice.'" Poller v. Columbia Broadcasting,
368 U.S. 464, 473 (1962).
Second, it was error for the trial judge to direct a verdict
in favor of the respondent on the "custom" [398 U.S.
177] count. The trial judge surveyed the evidence and
concluded that it was insufficient to prove the existence
of a custom of not serving white people in the company
of Negroes. He thereupon took the case away from the
jury, directing a verdict for the respondent. The Court
of Appeals affirmed this conclusion. In my opinion this
was clear error.
Petitioner testified at trial as follows:
"Q. Did you have occasion to know of specific instances where
white persons in the company of Negroes were discriminated
against? A. Yes.
"Q. How many such instances can you recall?
A. I can think of about three at the moment.
"Q. Will you describe the three instances to us?
A. I know that people were turned away from a white church, an
integrated group was turned away from a white church in
Hattiesburg. I was not present but this was explained to me. I saw a
rabbi being beaten because he was in the company of Negroes.
"Q. This was a white rabbi? A. Yes. And people were turned away
from a drug store in Hattiesburg, an integrated group. I don't
remember the name of the drug store.
"Q. On the basis of what you studied and on the basis of what you
observed, and on the basis of your conversations with other
persons there, did you come to a conclusion with regard to the
custom and usage with regard to the white community towards
serving persons, white persons, in the company of Negroes? A. Yes.
"Q. What was that conclusion? A. The conclusion was that white
persons—it was a custom and usage not to serve white persons in
the company of Negroes." [398 U.S. 178] This evidence, although
weakened by the cross-examination, was sufficient, I think, to
require the court to let the case go to the jury and secure
petitioner's constitutionally guaranteed right to a trial by that jury.
See Galloway v. United States, 319 U.S. 372, 396 (1943) (BLACK, J.,
dissenting).
I do not find it necessary at this time to pass on the
validity of the statutory provision concerning "custom
or usage" or on the trial court's views, concurred in by
the Court of Appeals, on the proper interpretation of
that term. Assuming that the trial court's interpretation
was correct and that the provision as so interpreted is
valid, there was enough evidence in this record to
warrant submitting the entire question of custom or
usage to the jury in accordance with instructions framed
to reflect those views.
For the foregoing reasons I concur in the judgment
reversing the Court of Appeals and remanding for a new
trial on both counts.