Petitioner Unterweser contracted with respondent to
tow respondent's drilling barge from Louisiana to Italy.
The towage contract contained a "forum selection
clause" [407 U.S. 21] providing that any dispute must be
litigated before the High Court of Justice in London,
England. While the barge was being towed in the Gulf
of Mexico a casualty was suffered. The tow made for
Tampa Bay, the nearest port, where respondent brought
suit for damages in the District Court.
Petitioners sued respondent in the High Court of Justice
in London, which denied respondent's motion to
dismiss.
Petitioners, having previously moved the District Court
to dismiss, filed a complaint in that court seeking
exoneration or limitation of liability as provided in 46
U. S. C. ยง 185. Respondent filed its claim in the
limitation proceedings, asserting the same cause of
action as in its original action. Petitioners then filed
objections to respondent's claim and counterclaimed
against respondent, alleging the same claims embodied
in its English action, plus an additional salvage claim.
Respondent moved for an injunction against petitioners'
litigating further in the English case and the District
Court granted the injunction pending determination of
the limitation action. Petitioners moved to stay their
own limitation proceeding pending a resolution of the
suit in the English court. That motion was denied. 296
F.Supp. 733.
That was the posture of the case as it reached the Court
of Appeals, petitioners appealing from the last two
orders. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 428 F.2d 888,
446 F.2d 907.
Chief Justice Taft in Hartford Accident Co. v. Southern
Pacific, 273 U.S. 207, 214, in discussing the Limitation
of Liability Act said that "the great object of the statute
was to encourage shipbuilding and to induce the
investment of money in this branch of industry, by
limiting the venture of those who build the ship to the
loss of the ship itself or her freight then pending, in
cases of damage or wrong, happening without the
privity or [407 U.S. 22] knowledge of the ship owner,
and by the fault or neglect of the master or other
persons on board; that the origin of this proceeding for
limitation of liability is to be found in the general
maritime law, differing from the English maritime law;
and that such a proceeding is entirely within the
constitutional grant of power to Congress to establish
courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
Chief Justice Taft went on to describe how the owner of
a vessel who, in case the vessel is found at fault, may
limit his liability to the value of the vessel and may bring
all claimants "into concourse in the proceeding, by
monition" and they may be enjoined from suing the
owner and the vessel on such claims in any other court.
Id., at 215.
Chief Justice Taft concluded: "[T]his Court has by its
rules and decisions given the statute a very broad and
equitable construction for the purpose of carrying out
its purpose and for facilitating a settlement of the whole
controversy over such losses as are comprehended
within it, and that all the ease with which rights can be
adjusted in equity is intended to be given to the
proceeding. It is the administration of equity in an
admiralty court. . . . The proceeding partakes in a way of
the features of a bill to enjoin a multiplicity of suits, a
bill in the nature of an interpleader, and a creditor's bill.
It looks to a complete and just disposition of a many
cornered controversy, and is applicable to proceedings
in rem against the ship as well as to proceedings in
personam against the owner, the limitation extending to
the owner's property as well as to his person." Id., at
215-216.
The Limitation Court is a court of equity and
traditionally an equity court may enjoin litigation in
another court where equitable considerations indicate
that the other litigation might prejudice the proceedings
in the Limitation Court. Petitioners' petition for
limitation [407 U.S. 23] subjects them to the full
equitable powers of the Limitation Court.
Respondent is a citizen of this country. Moreover, if it
were remitted to the English court, its substantive rights
would be adversely affected. Exculpatory provisions in
the towage control provide (1) that petitioners, the
masters and the crews "are not responsible for defaults
and/or errors in the navigation of the tow" and (2) that
"[d]amages suffered by the towed object are in any case
for account of its Owners."
Under our decision in Dixilyn Drilling Corp v. Crescent
Towing & Salvage Co., 372 U.S. 697, 698, "a contract
which exempts the tower from liability for its own
negligence" is not enforceable, though there is evidence
in the present record that it is enforceable in England.
That policy was first announced in Bisso v. Inland
Waterways Corp., 349 U.S. 85; and followed in Boston
Metals Co. v. The Winding Gulf, 349 U.S. 122; Dixilyn,
supra; Gray v. Johansson, 287 F.2d 852 (CA5);
California Co. v. Jumonville, 327 F.2d 988 (CA5);
American S. S. Co. v. Great Lakes Towing Co., 333 F.2d
426 (CA7); D. R. Kincaid, Ltd. v. Trans-Pacific Towing,
Inc., 367 F.2d 857 (CA9); A. L. Mechling Barge Lines,
Inc. v. Derby Co., 399 F.2d 304 (CA5). Cf. United States
v. Seckinger, 397 U.S. 203. Although the casualty
occurred on the high seas, the Bisso doctrine is
nonetheless applicable. The Scotland, 105 U.S. 24; The
Belgenland, 114 U.S. 355; The Gylfe v. The Trujillo, 209
F.2d 386 (CA2).
Moreover, the casualty occurred close to the District
Court, a number of potential witnesses, including
respondent's crewmen, reside in that area, and the
inspection and repair work were done there. The
testimony of the tower's crewmen, residing in Germany,
is already available by way of depositions taken in the
proceedings.
[407 U.S. 24] All in all, the District Court judge
exercised his discretion wisely in enjoining petitioners
from pursuing the litigation in England.*
I would affirm the judgment below.