I join Parts I-III of the Court's opinion. I fully agree that
the minimum-contacts analysis developed in
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310
(1945), represents a far more sensible construct for the
exercise of state-court jurisdiction than the patchwork
of legal and factual fictions that has been generated from
the decision in Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714 (1878). It is
precisely because [433 U.S. 220] the inquiry into
minimum contacts is now of such overriding
importance, however, that I must respectfully dissent
from Part IV of the Court's opinion.
I
The primary teaching of Parts I-III of today's decision is
that a State, in seeking to assert jurisdiction over a
person located outside its borders, may only do so on
the basis of minimum contacts among the parties, the
contested transaction, and the forum State. The
Delaware Supreme Court could not have made plainer,
however, that its sequestration statute, Del. Code Ann.,
Tit. 10, § 366 (1975), does not operate on this basis, but
instead is strictly an embodiment of quasi in rem
jurisdiction, a jurisdictional predicate no longer
constitutionally viable:
"[J]urisdiction under § 366 remains . . . quasi in rem founded on the
presence of capital stock here, not on prior contact by defendants
with this forum." Greyhound Corp. v. Heitner, 361 A.2d 225, 229
(1976).
This state-court ruling obviously comports with the
understanding of the parties, for the issue of the
existence of minimum contacts was never pleaded by
appellee, made the subject of discovery, or ruled upon by
the Delaware courts. These facts notwithstanding, the
Court in Part IV reaches the minimum-contacts
question and finds such contacts lacking as applied to
appellants. Succinctly stated, once having properly and
persuasively decided that the quasi in rem statute that
Delaware admits to having enacted is invalid, the Court
then proceeds to find that a minimum-contacts law that
Delaware expressly denies having enacted also could not
be constitutionally applied in this case.
In my view, a purer example of an advisory opinion is
not to be found. True, appellants do not deny having
received actual notice of the action in question. Ante, at
213 n. 40. [433 U.S. 221] However, notice is but one
ingredient of a proper assertion of state-court
jurisdiction. The other is a statute authorizing the
exercise of the State's judicial power along
constitutionally permissible grounds—which henceforth
means minimum contacts. As of today, § 366 is not such
a law.1 Recognizing that today's decision fundamentally
alters the relevant jurisdictional ground rules, I certainly
would not want to rule out the possibility that
Delaware's courts might decide that the legislature's
overriding purpose of securing the personal appearance
in state courts of defendants would best be served by
reinterpreting its statute to permit state jurisdiction on
the basis of constitutionally permissible contacts rather
than stock ownership. Were the state courts to take this
step, it would then become necessary to address the
question of whether minimum contacts exist here. But
in the present posture of this case, the Court's decision
of this important issue is purely an abstract ruling.
My concern with the inappropriateness of the Court's
action is highlighted by two other considerations. First,
an inquiry into minimum contacts inevitably is highly
dependent on creating a proper factual foundation
detailing the contacts between the forum State and the
controversy in question. Because neither the plaintiffappellee
nor the state courts viewed such an inquiry as
germane in this instance, the Court today is unable to
draw upon a proper factual record in reaching its
conclusion; moreover, its disposition denies appellee the
normal opportunity to seek discovery on the contacts
issue. Second, it must be remembered that the Court's
ruling is a constitutional one and necessarily [433 U.S.
222] will affect the reach of the jurisdictional laws of all
50 States. Ordinarily this would counsel restraint in
constitutional pronouncements. Ashwander v. TVA,
297 U.S. 288, 345-348 (1936) (Brandeis, J., concurring).
Certainly it should have cautioned the Court against
reaching out to decide a question that, as here, has yet to
emerge from the state courts ripened for review on the
federal issue.
II
Nonetheless, because the Court rules on the minimumcontacts
question, I feel impelled to express my view.
While evidence derived through discovery might satisfy
me that minimum contacts are lacking in a given case, I
am convinced that as a general rule a state forum has
jurisdiction to adjudicate a shareholder derivative action
centering on the conduct and policies of the directors
and officers of a corporation chartered by that State.
Unlike the Court, I therefore would not foreclose
Delaware from asserting jurisdiction over appellants
were it persuaded to do so on the basis of minimum
contacts.
It is well settled that a derivative lawsuit as presented
here does not inure primarily to the benefit of the
named plaintiff. Rather, the primary beneficiaries are
the corporation and its owners, the shareholders. "The
cause of action which such a plaintiff brings before the
court is not his own but the corporation's. . . . Such a
plaintiff often may represent an important public and
stockholder interest in bringing faithless managers to
book." Koster v. Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co., 330
U.S. 518, 522, 524 (1947).
Viewed in this light, the chartering State has an
unusually powerful interest in insuring the availability
of a convenient forum for litigating claims involving a
possible multiplicity of defendant fiduciaries and for
vindicating the State's substantive policies regarding the
management of its domestic corporations. I believe that
our cases fairly establish that [433 U.S. 223] the State's
valid substantive interests are important considerations
in assessing whether it constitutionally may claim
jurisdiction over a given cause of action.
In this instance, Delaware can point to at least three
interrelated public policies that are furthered by its
assertion of jurisdiction. First, the State has a substantial
interest in providing restitution for its local
corporations that allegedly have been victimized by
fiduciary misconduct, even if the managerial decisions
occurred outside the State. The importance of this
general state interest in assuring restitution for its own
residents previously found expression in cases that went
outside the then-prevailing due process framework to
authorize state-court jurisdiction over nonresident
motorists who injure others within the State. Hess v.
Pawloski, 274 U.S. 352 (1927); see Olberding v. Illinois
Central R. Co., 346 U.S. 338, 341 (1953). More recently,
it has led States to seek and to acquire jurisdiction over
nonresident tortfeasors whose purely out-of-state
activities produce domestic consequences. E. g., Gray v.
American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp., 22 Ill.2d
432, 176 N.E.2d 761 (1961). Second, state courts have
legitimately read their jurisdiction expansively when a
cause of action centers in an area in which the forum
State possesses a manifest regulatory interest. E. g.,
McGee v. International Life Ins. Co., 355 U.S. 220
(1957) (insurance regulation); Travelers Health Assn. v.
Virginia, 339 U.S. 643 (1950) (blue sky laws). Only this
Term we reiterated that the conduct of corporate
fiduciaries is just such a matter in which the policies and
interests of the domestic forum are ordinarily presumed
to be paramount. Santa Fe Industries, Inc. v. Green, 430
U.S. 462, 478-480 (1977); see Cort v. Ash, 422 U.S. 66,
84-85 (1975). Finally, a State like Delaware has a
recognized interest in affording a convenient forum for
supervising and overseeing the affairs of an entity that is
purely the creation of that State's law. For example, even
following our decision in [433 U.S. 224] International
Shoe, New York courts were permitted to exercise
complete judicial authority over nonresident
beneficiaries of a trust created under state law, even
though, unlike appellants here, the beneficiaries
personally entered into no association whatsoever with
New York. Mullane v. Central Hanover Bank & Trust
Co., 339 U.S. 306, 313 (1950);2 cf. Hartford Life Ins. Co.
v. Ibs, 237 U.S. 662, 671 (1915) (litigation concerning
management of mortuary fund operated by locally
chartered corporation rests in court of that State);
Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U.S. 516, 533 (1907) (state
courts can oversee liquidation of state-chartered
corporation). I, of course, am not suggesting that
Delaware's varied interests would justify its acceptance
of jurisdiction over any transaction touching upon the
affairs of its domestic corporations. But a derivative
action which raises allegations of abuses of the basic
management of an institution whose existence is created
by the State and whose powers and duties are defined by
state law fundamentally implicates the public policies of
that forum.
To be sure, the Court is not blind to these
considerations. It notes that the State's interests "may
support the application of Delaware law to resolve any
controversy over appellants' actions in their capacities as
officers and directors." Ante, at 215. But this, the Court
argues, pertains to choice of law, not jurisdiction. I
recognize that the jurisdictional and choice-of-law
inquiries are not identical. Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U.S.
235, 254 (1958). But I would not compartmentalize
thinking in this area quite so rigidly as it seems to me
the Court does today, for both inquiries "are [433 U.S.
225] often closely related and to a substantial degree
depend upon similar considerations." Id., at 258 (Black,
J., dissenting). In either case an important linchpin is the
extent of contacts between the controversy, the parties,
and the forum State. While constitutional limitations on
the choice of law are by no means settled, see, e. g.,
Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, 281 U.S. 397 (1930), important
considerations certainly include the expectancies of the
parties and the fairness of governing the defendants' acts
and behavior by rules of conduct created by a given
jurisdiction. See, e. g., Restatement (Second) of Conflict
of Laws § 6 (1971) (hereafter Restatement). These same
factors bear upon the propriety of a State's exercising
jurisdiction over a legal dispute. At the minimum, the
decision that it is fair to bind a defendant by a State's
laws and rules should prove to be highly relevant to the
fairness of permitting that same State to accept
jurisdiction for adjudicating the controversy.
Furthermore, I believe that practical considerations
argue in favor of seeking to bridge the distance between
the choice-of-law and jurisdictional inquiries. Even
when a court would apply the law of a different forum,3
as a general rule it will feel less knowledgeable and
comfortable in interpretation, and less interested in
fostering the policies of that foreign jurisdiction, than
would the courts established by the State that provides
the applicable law. See, e. g., Gulf Oil Co. v. Gilbert, 330
U.S. 501, 509 (1947); Restatement § 313, p. 347;
Traynor, Is This Conflict Really Necessary?, 37 Texas L.
Rev. 657, 664 (1959). Obviously, such choice-of-law
problems cannot entirely be avoided in a diverse legal
system such as our own. Nonetheless, when a suitor
[433 U.S. 226] seeks to lodge a suit in a State with a
substantial interest in seeing its own law applied to the
transaction in question, we could wisely act to minimize
conflicts, confusion, and uncertainty by adopting a
liberal view of jurisdiction, unless considerations of
fairness or efficiency strongly point in the opposite
direction.
This case is not one where, in my judgment, this
preference for jurisdiction is adequately answered.
Certainly nothing said by the Court persuades me that it
would be unfair to subject appellants to suit in
Delaware. The fact that the record does not reveal
whether they "set foot" or committed "act[s] related to
[the] cause of action" in Delaware, ante, at 213, is not
decisive, for jurisdiction can be based strictly on out-ofstate
acts having foreseeable effects in the forum State.
E. g., McGee v. International Life Ins. Co., supra; Gray
v. American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp., supra;
Restatement § 37. I have little difficulty in applying this
principle to nonresident fiduciaries whose alleged
breaches of trust are said to have substantial damaging
effect on the financial posture of a resident corporation.4
Further, I cannot understand how the existence of
minimum contacts in a constitutional sense is at all
affected by Delaware's failure statutorily to express an
interest in controlling corporate fiduciaries. Ante, at
214. To me this simply demonstrates that Delaware [433
U.S. 227] did not elect to assert jurisdiction to the extent
the Constitution would allow.5 Nor would I view as
controlling or even especially meaningful Delaware's
failure to exact from appellants their consent to be sued.
Ante, at 216. Once we have rejected the jurisdictional
framework created in Pennoyer v. Neff, I see no reason
to rest jurisdiction on a fictional outgrowth of that
system such as the existence of a consent statute,
expressed or implied.6
I, therefore, would approach the minimum-contacts
analysis differently than does the Court. Crucial to me is
the fact that appellants7 voluntarily associated
themselves with the [433 U.S. 228] State of Delaware,
"invoking the benefits and protections of its laws,"
Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U. S., at 253; International Shoe
Co. v. Washington, 326 U. S., at 319, by entering into a
long-term and fragile relationship with one of its
domestic corporations. They thereby elected to assume
powers and to undertake responsibilities wholly derived
from that State's rules and regulations, and to become
eligible for those benefits that Delaware law makes
available to its corporations' officials. E. g., Del. Code
Ann., Tit. 8, § 143 (1975) (interestfree loans); § 145
(1975 ed. and Supp. 1976) (indemnification). While it is
possible that countervailing issues of judicial efficiency
and the like might clearly favor a different forum, they
do not appear on the meager record before us;8 and, of
course, we are concerned solely with "minimum"
contacts, not the "best" contacts. I thus do not believe
that it is unfair to insist that appellants make themselves
available to suit in a competent forum that Delaware
might create for vindication of its important public
policies directly pertaining to appellants' fiduciary
associations with the State.