This case presents the question whether a party who has
had issues of fact adjudicated adversely to it in an
equitable action may be collaterally estopped from
relitigating the same issues before a jury in a subsequent
legal action brought against it by a new party.
The respondent brought this stockholder's class action
against the petitioners in a Federal District Court. The
complaint alleged that the petitioners, Parklane Hosiery
Co., Inc. (Parklane), and 13 of its officers, directors, and
stockholders, had issued a materially false and
misleading proxy statement in connection with a
merger.1 The proxy statement, according to the
complaint, had violated §§ 14 (a), 10 (b), and 20 (a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 895, 891,
899, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §§ 78n (a), 78j (b), and 78t
(a), as well as various rules and regulations promulgated
by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The
complaint sought damages, rescission of the merger, and
recovery of costs.
Before this action came to trial, the SEC filed suit
against the same defendants in the Federal District
Court, alleging that the proxy statement that had been
issued by Parklane was materially false and misleading in
essentially the same respects as those that had ben
alleged in the respondent's complaint. Injunctive relief
was requested. After a 4-day [439 U.S. 325] trial, the
District Court found that the proxy statement was
materially false and misleading in the respects alleged,
and entered a declaratory judgment to that effect. SEC v.
Parklane Hosiery Co., 422 F.Supp. 477. The Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed this judgment.
558 F.2d 1083.
The respondent in the present case then moved for
partial summary judgment against the petitioners,
asserting that the petitioners were collaterally estopped
from relitigating the issues that had been resolved
against them in the action brought by the SEC.2 The
District Court denied the motion on the ground that
such an application of collateral estoppel would deny the
petitioners their Seventh Amendment right to a jury
trial. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
reversed, holding that a party who has had issues of fact
determined against him after a full and fair opportunity
to litigate in a nonjury trial is collaterally estopped from
obtaining a subsequent jury trial of these same issues of
fact. 565 F.2d 815. The appellate court concluded that
"the Seventh Amendment preserves the right to jury
trial only with respect to issues of fact, [and] once those
issues have been fully and fairly adjudicated in a prior
proceeding, nothing remains for trial, either with or
without a jury." Id., at 819. Because of an intercircuit
conflict,3 we granted certiorari. 435 U.S. 1006.
[439 U.S. 326] I
The threshold question to be considered is whether,
quite apart from the right to a jury trial under the
Seventh Amendment, the petitioners can be precluded
from relitigating facts resolved adversely to them in a
prior equitable proceeding with another party under the
general law of collateral estoppel. Specifically, we must
determine whether a litigant who was not a party to a
prior judgment may nevertheless use that judgment
"offensively" to prevent a defendant from relitigating
issues resolved in the earlier proceeding.4
A
Collateral estoppel, like the related doctrine of res
judicata,5 has the dual purpose of protecting litigants
from the burden of relitigating an identical issue with
the same party or his privy and of promoting judicial
economy by preventing needless litigation. BlonderTongue
Laboratories, Inc. v. University of Illinois
Foundation, 402 U.S. 313, 328-329. Until relatively
recently, however, the scope of collateral estoppel was
limited by the doctrine of mutuality of parties. Under
this mutuality doctrine, neither party could use a prior
judgment [439 U.S. 327] as an estoppel against the other
unless both parties were bound by the judgment.6 Based
on the premise that it is somehow unfair to allow a
party to use a prior judgment when he himself would
not be so bound,7 the mutuality requirement provided a
party who had litigated and lost in a previous action an
opportunity to relitigate identical issues with new
parties.
By failing to recognize the obvious difference in position
between a party who has never litigated an issue and
one who has fully litigated and lost, the mutuality
requirement was criticized almost from its inception.8
Recognizing the validity of this criticism, the Court in
Blonder-Tongue Laboratories, Inc. v. University of
Illinois Foundation, supra, abandoned the mutuality
requirement, at least in cases where a patentee seeks to
relitigate the validity of a patent after a federal court in a
previous lawsuit has already declared it invalid.9 The
[439 U.S. 328] "broader question" before the Court,
however, was "whether it is any longer tenable to afford
a litigant more than one full and fair opportunity for
judicial resolution of the same issue." 402 U. S., at 328.
The Court strongly suggested a negative answer to that
question:
"In any lawsuit where a defendant, because of the mutuality
principle, is forced to present a complete defense on the merits to a
claim which the plaintiff has fully litigated and lost in a prior action,
there is an arguable misallocation of resources. To the extent the
defendant in the second suit may not win by asserting, without
contradiction, that the plaintiff had fully and fairly, but
unsuccessfully, litigated the same claim in the prior suit, the
defendant's time and money are diverted from alternative
uses—productive or otherwise—to relitigation of a decided issue.
And, still assuming that the issue was resolved correctly in the first
suit, there is reason to be concerned about the plaintiff's allocation
of resources. Permitting repeated litigation of the same issue as long
as the supply of unrelated defendants holds out reflects either the
aura of the gaming table or `a lack of discipline and of
disinterestedness on the part of the lower courts, hardly a worthy
or wise basis for fashioning rules of procedure.' Kerotest Mfg. Co.
v. C-O-Two Co., 342 U.S. 180, 185 (1952). Although neither
judges, the parties, nor the adversary system performs perfectly in
all cases, the requirement of determining whether the party against
whom an estoppel is asserted had a full and fair opportunity to
litigate is a most significant safeguard." Id., at 329.10
[439 U.S. 329] B
The Blonder-Tongue case involved defensive use of
collateral estoppel—a plaintiff was estopped from
asserting a claim that the plaintiff had previously
litigated and lost against another defendant. The present
case, by contrast, involves offensive use of collateral
estoppel—a plaintiff is seeking to estop a defendant from
relitigating the issues which the defendant previously
litigated and lost against another plaintiff. In both the
offensive and defensive use situations, the party against
whom estoppel is asserted has litigated and lost in an
earlier action. Nevertheless, several reasons have been
advanced why the two situations should be treated
differently.11
First, offensive use of collateral estoppel does not
promote judicial economy in the same manner as
defensive use does. Defensive use of collateral estoppel
precludes a plaintiff from relitigating identical issues by
merely "switching adversaries." Bernhard v. Bank of
America Nat. Trust & Savings Assn., 19 Cal. 2d, at 813,
122 P. 2d, at 895.12 Thus defensive collateral estoppel
gives a plaintiff a strong incentive to join [439 U.S. 330]
all potential defendants in the first action if possible.
Offensive use of collateral estoppel, on the other hand,
creates precisely the opposite incentive. Since a plaintiff
will be able to rely on a previous judgment against a
defendant but will not be bound by that judgment if the
defendant wins, the plaintiff has every incentive to
adopt a "wait and see" attitude, in the hope that the first
action by another plaintiff will result in a favorable
judgment. E. g., Nevarov v. Caldwell, 161 Cal.App.2d
762, 767-768, 327 P.2d 111, 115; Reardon v. Allen, 88
N.J.Super. 560, 571-572, 213 A.2d 26, 32. Thus offensive
use of collateral estoppel will likely increase rather than
decrease the total amount of litigation, since potential
plaintiffs will have everything to gain and nothing to
lose by not intervening in the first action.13
A second argument against offensive use of collateral
estoppel is that it may be unfair to a defendant. If a
defendant in the first action is sued for small or nominal
damages, he may have little incentive to defend
vigorously, particularly if future suits are not
foreseeable. The Evergreens v. Nunan, 141 F.2d 927,
929 (CA2); cf. Berner v. British Commonwealth Pac.
Airlines, 346 F.2d 532 (CA2) (application of offensive
collateral estoppel denied where defendant did not
appeal an adverse judgment awarding damages of
$35,000 and defendant was later sued for over $7
million). Allowing offensive collateral estoppel may also
be unfair to a defendant if the judgment relied upon as a
basis for the estoppel is itself inconsistent with one or
more previous judgments in favor of the defendant.14
Still another situation where it might be [439 U.S. 331]
unfair to apply offensive estoppel is where the second
action affords the defendant procedural opportunities
unavailable in the first action that could readily cause a
different result.15
C
We have concluded that the preferable approach for
dealing with these problems in the federal courts is not
to preclude the use of offensive collateral estoppel, but
to grant trial courts broad discretion to determine when
it should be applied.16 The general rule should be that in
cases where a plaintiff could easily have joined in the
earlier action or where, either for the reasons discussed
above or for other reasons, the application of offensive
estoppel would be unfair to a defendant, a trial judge
should not allow the use of offensive collateral estoppel.
In the present case, however, none of the circumstances
that might justify reluctance to allow the offensive use of
collateral estoppel is present. The application of
offensive collateral [439 U.S. 332] estoppel will not here
reward a private plaintiff who could have joined in the
previous action, since the respondent probably could
not have joined in the injunctive action brought by the
SEC even had he so desired.17 Similarly, there is no
unfairness to the petitioners in applying offensive
collateral estoppel in this case. First, in light of the
serious allegations made in the SEC's complaint against
the petitioners, as well as the foreseeability of
subsequent private suits that typically follow a successful
Government judgment, the petitioners had every
incentive to litigate the SEC lawsuit fully and
vigorously.18 Second, the judgment in the SEC action
was not inconsistent with any previous decision. Finally,
there will in the respondent's action be no procedural
opportunities available to the petitioners that were
unavailable in the first action of a kind that might be
likely to cause a different result.19
We conclude, therefore, that none of the considerations
that would justify a refusal to allow the use of offensive
collateral estoppel is present in this case. Since the
petitioners received a "full and fair" opportunity to
litigate their claims in the [439 U.S. 333] SEC action, the
contemporary law of collateral estoppel leads
inescapably to the conclusion that the petitioners are
collaterally estopped from relitigating the question of
whether the proxy statement was materially false and
misleading.
II
The question that remains is whether, notwithstanding
the law of collateral estoppel, the use of offensive
collateral estoppel in this case would violate the
petitioners' Seventh Amendment right to a jury trial.20
A
"[T]he thrust of the [Seventh] Amendment was to
preserve the right to jury trial as it existed in 1791."
Curtis v. Loether, 415 U.S. 189, 193. At common law, a
litigant was not entitled to have a jury determine issues
that had been previously adjudicated by a chancellor in
equity. Hopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109; Smith v.
Kernochen, 7 How. 198, 217-218; Brady v. Daly, 175
U.S. 148, 158-159; Shapiro & Coquillette, The Fetish of
Jury Trial in Civil Cases: A Comment on Rachal v. Hill,
85 Harv. L. Rev. 442, 448-458 (1971).21
Recognition that an equitable determination could have
collateral-estoppel effect in a subsequent legal action was
the major premise of this Court's decision in Beacon
Theatres, Inc. v. Westover, 359 U.S. 500. In that case
the plaintiff sought a declaratory judgment that certain
arrangements between it [439 U.S. 334] and the
defendant were not in violation of the antitrust laws,
and asked for an injunction to prevent the defendant
from instituting an antitrust action to challenge the
arrangements. The defendant denied the allegations and
counter-claimed for treble damages under the antitrust
laws, requesting a trial by jury of the issues common to
both the legal and equitable claims. The Court of
Appeals upheld denial of the request, but this Court
reversed, stating:
"[T]he effect of the action of the District Court could be, as the
Court of Appeals believed, `to limit the petitioner's opportunity
fully to try to a jury every issue which has a bearing upon its treble
damage suit,' for determination of the issue of clearances by the
judge might `operate either by way of res judicata or collateral
estoppel so as to conclude both parties with respect thereto at the
subsequent trial of the treble damage claim.' " Id., at 504.
It is thus clear that the Court in the Beacon Theatres
case thought that if an issue common to both legal and
equitable claims was first determined by a judge,
relitigation of the issue before a jury might be foreclosed
by res judicata or collateral estoppel. To avoid this
result, the Court held that when legal and equitable
claims are joined in the same action, the trial judge has
only limited discretion in determining the sequence of
trial and "that discretion . . . must, wherever possible, be
exercised to preserve jury trial." Id., at 510.22
Both the premise of Beacon Theatres, and the fact that it
enunciated no more than a general prudential rule were
confirmed by this Court's decision in Katchen v. Landy,
382 U.S. 323. In that case the Court held that a
bankruptcy court, sitting as a statutory court of equity, is
empowered to adjudicate [439 U.S. 335] equitable claims
prior to legal claims, even though the factual issues
decided in the equity action would have been triable by a
jury under the Seventh Amendment if the legal claims
had been adjudicated first. The Court stated:
"Both Beacon Theatres and Dairy Queen recognize that there might
be situations in which the Court could proceed to resolve the
equitable claim first even though the results might be dispositive of
the issues involved in the legal claim." Id., at 339.
Thus the Court in Katchen v. Landy recognized that an
equitable determination can have collateral-estoppel
effect in a subsequent legal action and that this estoppel
does not violate the Seventh Amendment.
B
Despite the strong support to be found both in history
and in the recent decisional law of this Court for the
proposition that an equitable determination can have
collateral-estoppel effect in a subsequent legal action, the
petitioners argue that application of collateral estoppel
in this case would nevertheless violate their Seventh
Amendment right to a jury trial. The petitioners
contend that since the scope of the Amendment must be
determined by reference to the common law as it existed
in 1791, and since the common law permitted collateral
estoppel only where there was mutuality of parties,
collateral estoppel cannot constitutionally be applied
when such mutuality is absent.
The petitioners have advanced no persuasive reason,
however, why the meaning of the Seventh Amendment
should depend on whether or not mutuality of parties is
present. A litigant who has lost because of adverse
factual findings in an equity action is equally deprived of
a jury trial whether he is estopped from relitigating the
factual issues against the same party or a new party. In
either case, the party against whom estoppel is asserted
has litigated questions of fact, and has had the facts
determined against him in an earlier proceeding. [439
U.S. 336] In either case there is no further factfinding
function for the jury to perform, since the common
factual issues have been resolved in the previous action.
Cf. Ex parte Peterson, 253 U.S. 300, 310 ("No one is
entitled in a civil case to trial by jury unless and except
so far as there are issues of fact to be determined").
The Seventh Amendment has never been interpreted in
the rigid manner advocated by the petitioners. On the
contrary, many procedural devices developed since 1791
that have diminished the civil jury's historic domain
have been found not to be inconsistent with the Seventh
Amendment. See Galloway v. United States, 319 U.S.
372, 388-393 (directed verdict does not violate the
Seventh Amendment); Gasoline Products Co. v.
Champlin Refining Co., 283 U.S. 494, 497-498 (retrial
limited to question of damages does not violate the
Seventh Amendment even though there was no practice
at common law for setting aside a verdict in part);
Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. United States, 187 U.S. 315,
319-321 (summary judgment does not violate the
Seventh Amendment).23
The Galloway case is particularly instructive. There the
party against whom a directed verdict had been entered
argued that the procedure was unconstitutional under
the Seventh Amendment. In rejecting this claim, the
Court said:
"The Amendment did not bind the federal courts to the exact
procedural incidents or details of jury trial according [439 U.S. 337]
to the common law in 1791, any more than it tied them to the
common-law system of pleading or the specific rules of evidence
then prevailing. Nor were `the rules of the common law' then
prevalent, including those relating to the procedure by which the
judge regulated the jury's role on questions of fact, crystallized in a
fixed and immutable system. . . .
"The more logical conclusion, we think, and the one which both
history and the previous decisions here support, is that the
Amendment was designed to preserve the basic institution of jury
trial in only its most fundamental elements, not the great mass of
procedural forms and details, varying even then so widely among
common-law jurisdictions." 319 U. S., at 390, 392 (footnote
omitted).
The law of collateral estoppel, like the law in other
procedural areas defining the scope of the jury's
function, has evolved since 1791. Under the rationale of
the Galloway case, these developments are not
repugnant to the Seventh Amendment simply for the
reason that they did not exist in 1791. Thus if, as we
have held, the law of collateral estoppel forecloses the
petitioners from relitigating the factual issues
determined against them in the SEC action, nothing in
the Seventh Amendment dictates a different result, even
though because of lack of mutuality there would have
been no collateral estoppel in 1791.24
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.