As I view this unusual case—in which neither precedent
nor constitutional language provides sure
guidance—two separate questions must be answered.
First, does the Full Faith and Credit Clause1 require
Minnesota, the forum State, to apply Wisconsin law?
Second, does the Due Process Clause2 of the Fourteenth
Amendment prevent Minnesota from applying its own
law? The first inquiry implicates the federal interest in
ensuring that Minnesota respect the sovereignty of the
State of Wisconsin; the second implicates the litigants'
interest in a fair adjudication of their rights.3
[449 U.S. 321] I realize that both this Court's analysis of
choice-of-law questions4 and scholarly criticism of those
decisions5 have treated these two inquiries as though
they were indistinguishable.6 [449 U.S. 322]
Nevertheless, I am persuaded that the two constitutional
provisions protect different interests and that proper
analysis requires separate consideration of each.
I
The Full Faith and Credit Clause is one of several
provisions in the Federal Constitution designed to
transform the several States from independent
sovereignties into a single, unified Nation. See Thomas
v. Washington Gas Light Co., 448 U.S. 261, 271-272
(1980) (plurality opinion); Milwaukee County v. M. E.
White Co., 296 U.S. 268, 276-277 (1935).7 The Full
Faith and Credit Clause implements this design by
directing that a State, when acting as the forum for
litigation having multistate aspects or implications,
respect the legitimate interests of other States and avoid
infringement upon their sovereignty. The Clause does
not, however, rigidly [449 U.S. 323] require the forum
State to apply foreign law whenever another State has a
valid interest in the litigation. See Nevada v. Hall, 440
U.S. 410, 424 (1979); Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial
Accident Comm'n, 294 U.S. 532, 546-548 (1935); Pacific
Employers Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306
U.S. 493, 501-502 (1939).8 On the contrary, in view of
the fact that the forum State is also a sovereign in its
own right, in appropriate cases it may attach paramount
importance to its own legitimate interests.9
Accordingly, the fact that a choice-of-law decision may
be unsound as a matter of conflicts law does not
necessarily implicate the federal concerns embodied in
the Full Faith and Credit Clause. Rather, in my opinion,
the Clause should not invalidate a state court's choice of
forum law unless that choice threatens the federal
interest in national unity by unjustifiably infringing
upon the legitimate interests of another State.10
[449 U.S. 324] In this case, I think the Minnesota courts'
decision to apply Minnesota law was plainly unsound as
a matter of normal conflicts law. Both the execution of
the insurance contract and the accident giving rise to the
litigation took place in Wisconsin. Moreover, when
both of those events occurred, the plaintiff, the
decedent, and the operators of both vehicles were all
residents of Wisconsin. Nevertheless, I do not believe
that any threat to national unity or Wisconsin's
sovereignty ensues from allowing the substantive
question presented by this case to be determined by the
law of another State.
The question on the merits is one of interpreting the
meaning of the insurance contract. Neither the contract
itself, nor anything else in the record, reflects any
express understanding of the parties with respect to
what law would be applied or with respect to whether
the separate uninsured motorist coverage for each of the
decedent's three cars could be "stacked." Since the policy
provided coverage for accidents that might occur in
other States, it was obvious to the parties at the time of
contracting that it might give rise to the application of
the law of States other than Wisconsin. Therefore,
while Wisconsin may have an interest in ensuring that
contracts formed in Wisconsin in reliance upon
Wisconsin law are interpreted in accordance with that
law, that interest is not implicated in this case.11
[449 U.S. 325] Petitioner has failed to establish that
Minnesota's refusal to apply Wisconsin law poses any
direct12 or indirect threat to Wisconsin's sovereignty.13
In the absence of any such [449 U.S. 326] threat, I find it
unnecessary to evaluate the forum State's interest in the
litigation in order to reach the conclusion that the Full
Faith and Credit Clause does not require the Minnesota
courts to apply Wisconsin law to the question of
contract interpretation presented in this case.
II
It may be assumed that a choice-of-law decision would
violate the Due Process Clause if it were totally arbitrary
or if it were fundamentally unfair to either litigant. I
question whether a judge's decision to apply the law of
his own State could ever be described as wholly
irrational. For judges are presumably familiar with their
own state law and may find it difficult and time
consuming to discover and apply correctly the law of
another State.14 The forum State's interest in the fair
and efficient administration of justice is therefore
sufficient, in my judgment, to attach a presumption of
validity to a forum State's decision to apply its own law
to a dispute over which it has jurisdiction.
The forum State's interest in the efficient operation of
its judicial system is clearly not sufficient, however, to
justify the application of a rule of law that is
fundamentally unfair to one of the litigants. Arguably, a
litigant could demonstrate such unfairness in a variety of
ways. Concern about the fairness of the forum's choice
of its own rule might arise [449 U.S. 327] if that rule
favored residents over nonresident, if it represented a
dramatic departure from the rule that obtains in most
American jurisdictions, or if the rule itself was unfair on
its face or as applied.15
The application of an otherwise acceptable rule of law
may result in unfairness to the litigants if, in engaging in
the activity which is the subject of the litigation, they
could not reasonably have anticipated that their actions
would later be judged by this rule of law. A choice-oflaw
decision that frustrates the justifiable expectations of
the parties can be fundamentally unfair. This desire to
prevent unfair surprise to a litigant has been the central
concern in this Court's review of choice-of-law
decisions under the Due Process Clause.16
Neither the "stacking" rule itself, nor Minnesota's
application of that rule to these litigants, raises any
serious question of fairness. As the plurality observes,
"[s]tacking was [449 U.S. 328] the rule in most States at
the time the policy was issued." Ante, at 316, n. 22.17
Moreover, the rule is consistent with the economics of a
contractual relationship in which the policyholder paid
three separate premiums for insurance coverage for
three automobiles, including a separate premium for
each uninsured motorist coverage.18 Nor am I persuaded
that the decision of the Minnesota courts to apply the
"stacking" rule in this case can be said to violate due
process because that decision frustrates the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties.
Contracting parties can, of course, make their
expectations explicit by providing in their contract
either that the law of a particular jurisdiction shall
govern questions of contract interpretation,19 or that a
particular substantive rule, for instance "stacking," shall
or shall not apply.20 In the absence [449 U.S. 329] of such
express provisions, the contract nonetheless may
implicitly reveal the expectations of the parties. For
example, if a liability insurance policy issued by a
resident of a particular State provides coverage only
with respect to accidents within that State, it is
reasonable to infer that the contracting parties expected
that their obligations under the policy would be
governed by that State's law.21
In this case, no express indication of the parties'
expectations is available. The insurance policy provided
coverage for accidents throughout the United States;
thus, at the time of contracting, the parties certainly
could have anticipated that the law of States other than
Wisconsin would govern particular claims arising under
the policy.22 By virtue of doing business [449 U.S. 330]
in Minnesota, Allstate was aware that it could be sued in
the Minnesota courts; Allstate also presumably was
aware that Minnesota law, as well as the law of most
States, permitted "stacking." Nothing in the record
requires that a different inference be drawn. Therefore,
the decision of the Minnesota courts to apply the law of
the forum in this case does not frustrate the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties, and I can find no
fundamental unfairness in that decision requiring the
attention of this Court.23
[449 U.S. 331] In terms of fundamental fairness, it seems
to me that two factors relied upon by the plurality—the
plaintiff's post-accident move to Minnesota and the
decedent's Minnesota employment—are either
irrelevant to or possibly even tend to undermine the
plurality's conclusion. When the expectations of the
parties at the time of contracting are the central due
process concern, as they are in this case, an
unanticipated postaccident occurrence is clearly
irrelevant for due process purposes. The fact that the
plaintiff became a resident of the forum State after the
accident surely cannot justify a ruling in her favor that
would not be made if the plaintiff were a nonresident.
Similarly, while the fact that the decedent regularly
drove into Minnesota might be relevant to the
expectations of the contracting parties,24 the fact that he
did so because he was employed in Minnesota adds
nothing to the due process analysis. The choice-of-law
decision of the Minnesota courts is consistent with due
process because it does not result in unfairness to either
litigant, not because Minnesota now has an interest in
the plaintiff as resident or formerly had an interest in
the decedent as employee.
III
Although I regard the Minnesota courts' decision to
apply forum law as unsound as a matter of conflicts law,
and there [449 U.S. 332] is little in this record other than
the presumption in favor of the forum's own law to
support that decision, I concur in the plurality's
judgment. It is not this Court's function to establish and
impose upon state courts a federal choice-of-law rule,
nor is it our function to ensure that state courts
correctly apply whatever choice-of-law rules they have
themselves adopted.25 Our authority may be exercised in
the choice-of-law area only to prevent a violation of the
Full Faith and Credit or the Due Process Clause. For the
reasons stated above, I find no such violation in this
case.