This Court granted certiorari to determine whether the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment1 or
the Full Faith and Credit Clause of Art. IV, § 1,2 of the
United States Constitution bars the Minnesota Supreme
Court's choice of substantive Minnesota law to govern
the effect of a provision in an insurance policy issued to
respondent's decedent. 444 U.S. 1070 (1980).
[449 U.S. 305] I
Respondent's late husband, Ralph Hague, died of
injuries suffered when a motorcycle on which he was a
passenger was struck from behind by an automobile.
The accident occurred in Pierce County, Wis., which is
immediately across the Minnesota border from Red
Wing, Minn. The operators of both vehicles were
Wisconsin residents, as was the decedent, who, at the
time of the accident, resided with respondent in Hager
City, Wis., which is one and one-half miles from Red
Wing. Mr. Hague had been employed in Red Wing for
the 15 years immediately preceding his death and had
commuted daily from Wisconsin to his place of
employment.
Neither the operator of the motorcycle nor the operator
of the automobile carried valid insurance. However, the
decedent held a policy issued by petitioner Allstate
Insurance Co. covering three automobiles owned by
him and containing an uninsured motorist clause
insuring him against loss incurred from accidents with
uninsured motorists. The uninsured motorist coverage
was limited to $15,000 for each automobile.3
After the accident, but prior to the initiation of this
lawsuit, respondent moved to Red Wing. Subsequently,
she married a Minnesota resident and established
residence with her new husband in Savage, Minn. At
approximately the same time, a Minnesota Registrar of
Probate appointed respondent personal representative
of her deceased husband's estate. Following her
appointment, she brought this action in Minnesota
District Court seeking a declaration under Minnesota
law that the $15,000 uninsured motorist coverage on
each of her late husband's three automobiles could be
"stacked" to provide total coverage of $45,000.
Petitioner defended on the ground that whether the
three uninsured motorist [449 U.S. 306] coverages could
be stacked should be determined by Wisconsin law,
since the insurance policy was delivered in Wisconsin,
the accident occurred in Wisconsin, and all persons
involved were Wisconsin residents at the time of the
accident.
The Minnesota District Court disagreed. Interpreting
Wisconsin law to disallow stacking, the court concluded
that Minnesota's choice-of-law rules required the
application of Minnesota law permitting stacking. The
court refused to apply Wisconsin law as "inimical to the
public policy of Minnesota" and granted summary
judgment for respondent.4
The Minnesota Supreme Court, sitting en banc,
affirmed the District Court.5 The court, also
interpreting Wisconsin law to prohibit stacking,6
applied Minnesota law after analyzing the relevant
Minnesota contacts and interests within the analytical
framework developed by Professor Leflar.7 See Leflar,
Choice-Influencing Considerations in Conflicts Law, 41
N. Y. U. L. Rev. 267 (1966). The state court, therefore,
examined the conflict-of-laws issue in terms of (1)
predictability of result, (2) maintenance of interstate
order, (3) simplification of the judicial task, (4)
advancement of the forum's governmental interests, and
(5) application of the better rule of law. Although stating
that the Minnesota contacts might not be, "in
themselves, sufficient to mandate application of
[Minnesota] law,"8 289 N.W.2d 43, 49 (1978),[449 U.S.
307] under the first four factors, the court concluded
that the fifth factor—application of the better rule of
law—favored selection of Minnesota law. The court
emphasized that a majority of States allow stacking and
that legal decisions allowing stacking "are fairly recent
and well considered in light of current uses of
automobiles." Ibid. In addition, the court found the
Minnesota rule superior to Wisconsin's "because it
requires the cost of accidents with uninsured motorists
to be spread more broadly through insurance premiums
than does the Wisconsin rule." Ibid. Finally, after
rehearing en banc,9 the court buttressed its initial
opinion by indicating "that contracts of insurance on
motor vehicles are in a class by themselves" since an
insurance company "knows the automobile is a movable
item which will be driven from state to state." 289 N.
W. 2d, at 50 (1979). From this premise the court
concluded that application of Minnesota law was "not so
arbitrary and unreasonable as to violate due process."
Ibid.
II
It is not for this Court to say whether the choice-of-law
analysis suggested by Professor Leflar is to be preferred
or whether we would make the same choice-of-law
decision if sitting as the Minnesota Supreme Court. Our
sole function is to determine whether the Minnesota
Supreme Court's choice of its own substantive law in
this case exceeded federal constitutional limitations.
Implicit in this inquiry is the recognition, long accepted
by this Court, that a set of facts giving rise to a lawsuit,
or a particular issue within a lawsuit, may justify, in
constitutional terms, application of the law of more than
one jurisdiction. See, e. g., Watson v. Employers
Liability Assurance Corp., 348 U.S. 66, 72-73 (1954); n.
11, infra. See generally Clay v. Sun Insurance Office,
Ltd., 377 U.S. 179, 181-182 (1964) [449 U.S. 308]
(hereinafter cited as Clay II). As a result, the forum State
may have to select one law from among the laws of
several jurisdictions having some contact with the
controversy.
In deciding constitutional choice-of-law questions,
whether under the Due Process Clause or the Full Faith
and Credit Clause,10 this Court has traditionally
examined the contacts of the State, whose law was
applied, with the parties and with the occurrence or
transaction giving rise to the litigation. See Clay II,
supra, at 183. In order to ensure that the choice of law is
neither arbitrary nor fundamentally unfair, see Alaska
Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 294 U.S.
532, 542 (1935), the Court has invalidated the choice of
law of a State which has had no significant contact or
significant aggregation of contacts, creating state
interests, with the parties and the occurrence or
transaction.11
[449 U.S. 309] Two instructive examples of such
invalidation are Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, 281 U.S. 397
(1930), and John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Yates,
299 U.S. 178 (1936). In both cases, the selection of
forum law rested exclusively on the presence of one
nonsignificant forum contact.
Home Ins. Co. v. Dick involved interpretation of an
insurance policy which had been issued in Mexico, by a
Mexican insurer, to a Mexican citizen, covering a
Mexican risk. The policy was subsequently assigned to
Mr. Dick, who was domiciled in Mexico and "physically
present and acting in Mexico," 281 U. S., at 408,
although he remained a nominal, permanent resident of
Texas. The policy restricted coverage to losses occurring
in certain Mexican waters and, indeed, the loss occurred
in those waters. Dick brought suit [449 U.S. 310] in
Texas against a New York reinsurer. Neither the
Mexican insurer nor the New York reinsurer had any
connection to Texas.12 The Court held that application
of Texas law to void the insurance contract's limitationof-actions
clause violated due process.13
The relationship of the forum State to the parties and
the transaction was similarly attenuated in John
Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Yates. There, the
insurer, a Massachusetts corporation, issued a contract
of insurance on the life of a New York resident. The
contract was applied for, issued, and delivered in New
York where the insured and his spouse resided. After
the insured died in New York, his spouse moved to
Georgia and brought suit on the policy in Georgia.
Under Georgia law, the jury was permitted to take into
account oral modifications when deciding whether an
insurance policy application contained material
misrepresentations. Under New York law, however,
such misrepresentations were to be evaluated solely on
the basis of the written application. The Georgia court
applied Georgia law. This Court reversed, finding
application of Georgia law to be unconstitutional.
Dick and Yates stand for the proposition that if a State
has only an insignificant contact with the parties and the
[449 U.S. 311] occurrence or transaction, application of
its law is unconstitutional.14 Dick concluded that
nominal residence—standing alone—was inadequate;
Yates held that a postoccurrence change of residence to
the forum State—standing alone—was insufficient to
justify application of forum law. Although instructive as
extreme examples of selection of forum law, neither
Dick nor Yates governs this case. For in contrast to
those decisions, here the Minnesota contacts with the
parties and the occurrence are obviously significant.
Thus, this case is like Alaska Packers, Cardillo v. Liberty
Mutual Ins. Co., 330 U.S. 469 (1947), and Clay II—cases
where this Court sustained choice-of-law decisions
based on the contacts of the State, whose law was
applied, with the parties and occurrence.
In Alaska Packers, the Court upheld California's
application of its Workmen's Compensation Act, where
the most significant contact of the worker with
California was his execution of an employment contract
in California. The worker, a nonresident alien from
Mexico, was hired in California for seasonal work in a
salmon canning factory in Alaska. As part of the
employment contract, the employer, who was doing
business in California, agreed to transport the worker to
Alaska and to return him to California when the work
was completed. Even though the employee contracted to
be bound by the Alaska Workmen's Compensation Law
and was injured in Alaska, he sought an award under the
California Workmen's Compensation Act. The Court
held that the choice of California law was not "so
arbitrary or unreasonable as to amount to a denial of
due process," 294 U. S., at 542, because "[w]ithout a
remedy in California, [he] would be remediless," ibid.,
and because of California's interest that the worker not
become a public charge, ibid.15
[449 U.S. 312] In Cardillo v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co.,
supra, a District of Columbia resident, employed by a
District of Columbia employer and assigned by the
employer for the three years prior to his death to work
in Virginia, was killed in an automobile crash in
Virginia in the course of his daily commute home from
work. The Court found the District's contacts with the
parties and the occurrence sufficient to satisfy
constitutional requirements, based on the employee's
residence in the District, his commute between home
and the Virginia workplace, and his status as an
employee of a company "engaged in electrical
construction work in the District of Columbia and
surrounding areas." Id., at 471.16
Similarly, Clay II upheld the constitutionality of the
application of forum law. There, a policy of insurance
had issued in Illinois to an Illinois resident. Subsequently
the insured moved to Florida and suffered a property
loss in Florida. Relying explicitly on the nationwide
coverage of the policy and the presence of the insurance
company in Florida and implicitly on the plaintiff's
Florida residence and the occurrence of the property
loss in Florida, the Court sustained the Florida court's
choice of Florida law.
The lesson from Dick and Yates, which found
insufficient forum contacts to apply forum law, and
from Alaska Packers, Cardillo, and Clay II, which found
adequate contacts to sustain the choice of forum law,17 is
that for a State's substantive [449 U.S. 313] law to be
selected in a constitutionally permissible manner, that
State must have a significant contact or significant
aggregation of contacts, creating state interests, such
that choice of its law is neither arbitrary nor
fundamentally unfair. Application of this principle to
the facts of this case persuades us that the Minnesota
Supreme Court's choice of its own law did not offend
the Federal Constitution.
III
Minnesota has three contacts with the parties and the
occurrence giving rise to the litigation. In the aggregate,
these contacts permit selection by the Minnesota
Supreme Court of Minnesota law allowing the stacking
of Mr. Hague's uninsured motorist coverages.
First, and for our purposes a very important contact,
Mr. Hague was a member of Minnesota's work force,
having been employed by a Red Wing, Minn.,
enterprise for the 15 [449 U.S. 314] years preceding his
death. While employment status may implicate a state
interest less substantial than does resident status, that
interest is nevertheless important. The State of
employment has police power responsibilities towards
the nonresident employee that are analogous, if
somewhat less profound, than towards residents. Thus,
such employees use state services and amenities and may
call upon state facilities in appropriate circumstances.
In addition, Mr. Hague commuted to work in
Minnesota, a contact which was important in Cardillo v.
Liberty Mutual Ins. Co., 330 U. S., at 475-476 (daily
commute between residence in District of Columbia and
workplace in Virginia), and was presumably covered by
his uninsured motorist coverage during the commute.18
The State's interest in its commuting nonresident
employees reflects a state concern for the safety and
well-being of its work force and the concomitant effect
on Minnesota employers.
That Mr. Hague was not killed while commuting to
work or while in Minnesota does not dictate a different
result. To hold that the Minnesota Supreme Court's
choice of Minnesota law violated the Constitution for
that reason would require too narrow a view of
Minnesota's relationship with the parties and the
occurrence giving rise to the litigation. An automobile
accident need not occur within a particular jurisdiction
for that jurisdiction to be connected to the occurrence.19
[449 U.S. 315] Similarly, the occurrence of a crash fatal to
a Minnesota employee in another State is a Minnesota
contact.20 If Mr. Hague had only been injured and
missed work for a few weeks, the effect on the
Minnesota employer would have been palpable and
Minnesota's interest in having its employee made whole
would be evident. Mr. Hague's death affects Minnesota's
interest still more acutely, even though Mr. Hague will
not return to the Minnesota work force. Minnesota's
work force is surely affected by the level of protection
the State extends to it, either directly or indirectly.
Vindication of the rights of the estate of a Minnesota
employee, therefore, is an important state concern.
Mr. Hague's residence in Wisconsin does not—as
Allstate seems to argue—constitutionally mandate
application of Wisconsin law to the exclusion of forum
law.21 If, in the instant [449 U.S. 316] case, the accident
had occurred in Minnesota between Mr. Hague and an
uninsured Minnesota motorist, if the insurance contract
had been executed in Minnesota covering a Minnesota
registered company automobile which Mr. Hague was
permitted to drive, and if a Wisconsin court sought to
apply Wisconsin law, certainly Mr. Hague's residence in
Wisconsin, his commute between Wisconsin and
Minnesota, and the insurer's presence in Wisconsin
should be adequate to apply Wisconsin's law.22 See
generally Cardillo v. Liberty [449 U.S. 317] Mutual Ins.
Co., supra; Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident
Comm'n, 294 U.S. 532 (1935); Home Ins. Co. v. Dick,
281 U. S., at 408, n. 5. Employment status is not a
sufficiently less important status than residence, see
generally Carroll v. Lanza, 349 U.S. 408 (1955); Alaska
Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, supra,
when combined with Mr. Hague's daily commute across
state lines and the other Minnesota contacts present, to
prohibit the choice-of-law result in this case on
constitutional grounds.
Second, Allstate was at all times present and doing
business in Minnesota.23 By virtue of its presence,
Allstate can hardly claim unfamiliarity with the laws of
the host jurisdiction and surprise that the state courts
might apply forum law to litigation [449 U.S. 318] in
which the company is involved. "Particularly since the
company was licensed to do business in [the forum], it
must have known it might be sued there, and that [the
forum] courts would feel bound by [forum] law."24Clay
v. Sun Insurance Office Ltd., 363 U.S. 207, 221 (1960)
(Black, J., dissenting).25 Moreover, Allstate's presence in
Minnesota gave Minnesota an interest in regulating the
company's insurance obligations insofar as they affected
both a Minnesota resident and court-appointed
representative—respondent—and a longstanding
member of Minnesota's work force— Mr. Hague. See
Hoopeston Canning Co. v. Cullen, 318 U.S. 313, 316
(1943).
Third, respondent became a Minnesota resident prior to
institution of this litigation. The stipulated facts reveal
that she first settled in Red Wing, Minn., the town in
which [449 U.S. 319] her late husband had worked.26 She
subsequently moved to Savage, Minn., after marrying a
Minnesota resident who operated an automobile service
station in Bloomington, Minn. Her move to Savage
occurred "almost concurrently," 289 N. W. 2d, at 45,
with the initiation of the instant case.27 There is no
suggestion that Mrs. Hague moved to Minnesota in
anticipation of this litigation or for the purpose of
finding a legal climate especially hospitable to her
claim.28 The stipulated facts, sparse as they are, negate
any such inference.
While John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Yates, 299
U.S. 178 (1936), held that a postoccurrence change of
residence to the forum State was insufficient in and of
itself to confer power on the forum State to choose its
law, that case did not hold that such a change of
residence was irrelevant. Here, of course, respondent's
bona fide residence in Minnesota was not the sole
contact Minnesota had with this litigation. And in
connection with her residence in Minnesota,
respondent was appointed personal representative of
Mr. Hague's estate by the Registrar of Probate for the
County of Goodhue, Minn. Respondent's residence and
subsequent appointment in Minnesota as personal
representative of her late husband's estate constitute a
Minnesota contact which gives Minnesota an interest in
respondent's recovery, an interest which the court
below identified as full compensation for "resident
accident victims" to keep them "off welfare rolls" and
able "to meet financial obligations." 289 N. W. 2d, at 49.
[449 U.S. 320] In sum, Minnesota had a significant
aggregation29 of contacts with the parties and the
occurrence, creating state interests, such that application
of its law was neither arbitrary nor fundamentally
unfair. Accordingly, the choice of Minnesota law by the
Minnesota Supreme Court did not violate the Due
Process Clause or the Full Faith and Credit Clause.
Affirmed.