This case presents the issue whether a federal court
sitting in diversity should apply state or federal law in
adjudicating a motion to transfer a case to a venue
provided in a contractual forum-selection clause.
I
The dispute underlying this case grew out of a
dealership agreement that obligated petitioner company,
an Alabama corporation, to market copier products of
respondent, a nationwide manufacturer with its
principal place of business in New Jersey. The
agreement contained a forum-selection clause providing
that any dispute arising out of the contract could be
brought only in a court located in Manhattan.1 Business
relations between the parties soured under
circumstances that are not relevant here. In September
1984, petitioner brought a complaint in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama. The core of the complaint was an allegation
that respondent had breached the dealership agreement,
but petitioner also included claims for breach of
warranty, fraud, and antitrust violations.
Relying on the contractual forum-selection clause,
respondent moved the District Court either to transfer
the case to the Southern District of New York under 28
U. S. C. § 1404(a) or to dismiss the case for improper
venue under 28 U. S. C. § 1406. The District Court
denied the motion. Civ. Action No. 84-AR-2460-S (Jan.
29, 1985). It reasoned that the transfer motion was
controlled by Alabama law and that Alabama looks
unfavorably upon contractual forum-selection clauses.
The court certified its ruling for interlocutory appeal,
[487 U.S. 25] see 28 U. S. C. § 1292(b) (1982 ed., Supp.
IV), and the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit
accepted jurisdiction.
On appeal, a divided panel of the Eleventh Circuit
reversed the District Court. The panel concluded that
questions of venue in diversity actions are governed by
federal law, and that the parties' forum-selection clause
was enforceable as a matter of federal law. 779 F.2d 643
(1986). The panel therefore reversed the order of the
District Court and remanded with instructions to
transfer the case to a Manhattan court. After petitioner
successfully moved for rehearing en banc, 785 F.2d 896
(1986), the full Court of Appeals proceeded to adopt the
result, and much of the reasoning, of the panel opinion.
810 F.2d 1066 (1987).2 The en banc court, citing
Congress' enactment or approval of several rules to
govern venue determinations in diversity actions, first
determined that "[v]enue is a matter of federal
procedure." Id., at 1068. The Court of Appeals then
applied the standards articulated in the admiralty case of
The Bremen v. Zapata Off-Shore Co., 407 U.S. 1 (1972),
to conclude that "the choice of forum clause in this
contract is in all respects enforceable generally as a
matter of federal law . . . ." 810 F. 2d, at 1071. We now
affirm under somewhat different reasoning.
II
Both the panel opinion and the opinion of the full Court
of Appeals referred to the difficulties that often attend
"the sticky question of which law, state or federal, will
govern various aspects of the decisions of federal courts
sitting in [487 U.S. 26] diversity." 779 F. 2d, at 645. A
district court's decision whether to apply a federal
statute such as § 1404(a) in a diversity action,3 however,
involves a considerably less intricate analysis than that
which governs the "relatively unguided Erie choice."
Hanna v. Plumer, 380 U.S. 460, 471 (1965) (referring to
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64 (1938)). Our cases
indicate that when the federal law sought to be applied
is a congressional statute, the first and chief question for
the district court's determination is whether the statute
is "sufficiently broad to control the issue before the
Court." Walker v. Armco Steel Corp., 446 U.S. 740,
749-750 (1980); Burlington Northern R. Co. v. Woods,
480 U.S. 1, 4-5 (1987). This question involves a
straightforward exercise in statutory interpretation to
determine if the statute covers the point in dispute. See
Walker v. Armco Steel Corp., supra, at 750, and n. 9.4
See also Burlington Northern R. [487 U.S. 27] Co. v.
Woods, supra, at 7 (identifying inquiry as whether a
Federal Rule "occupies [a state rule's] field of
operation").
If the district court determines that a federal statute
covers the point in dispute, it proceeds to inquire
whether the statute represents a valid exercise of
Congress' authority under the Constitution. See Hanna
v. Plumer, supra, at 471 (citing Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,
supra, at 77-79).5 If Congress intended to reach the issue
before the district court, and if it enacted its intention
into law in a manner that abides with the Constitution,
that is the end of the matter; "[f]ederal courts are bound
to apply rules enacted by Congress with respect to
matters . . . over which it has legislative power." Prima
Paint Corp. v. Flood & Conklin Mfg. Co., 388 U.S. 395,
406 (1967); cf. Hanna v. Plumer, supra, at 471 ("When a
situation is covered by one of the Federal Rules . . . the
court has been instructed to apply the Federal Rule, and
can refuse to do so only if the Advisory Committee, this
Court, and Congress erred in their prima facie judgment
that the Rule in question transgresses neither the terms
of the Enabling Act nor constitutional restrictions").6
Thus, a district court sitting in diversity must apply a
federal statute that controls the issue before the court
and that represents a valid exercise of Congress'
constitutional powers.
[487 U.S. 28] III
Applying the above analysis to this case persuades us
that federal law, specifically 28 U. S. C. § 1404(a),
governs the parties' venue dispute.
A
At the outset we underscore a methodological difference
in our approach to the question from that taken by the
Court of Appeals. The en banc court determined that
federal law controlled the issue based on a survey of
different statutes and judicial decisions that together
revealed a significant federal interest in questions of
venue in general, and in choice-of-forum clauses in
particular. The Court of Appeals then proceeded to
apply the standards announced in our opinion in The
Bremen v. Zapata Off-Shore Co., 407 U.S. 1 (1972),7 to
determine that the forum-selection clause in this case
was enforceable. But the immediate issue before the
District Court was whether to grant respondent's
motion to transfer the action under § 1404(a),8 and as
Judge Tjoflat properly noted in his special concurrence
below, the immediate issue before the Court of Appeals
was whether the District Court's denial of the § 1404(a)
motion constituted an abuse of discretion. Although we
agree with the Court of Appeals that the Bremen case
may prove "instructive" in resolving the parties' dispute,
810 F. 2d, at 1069; but cf. Texas Industries, Inc. v.
Radcliff Materials, Inc., 451 U.S. 630, 641-642 (1981)
(federal common law developed under admiralty
jurisdiction not freely transferable to diversity setting),
we disagree with the [487 U.S. 29] court's articulation of
the relevant inquiry as "whether the forum selection
clause in this case is unenforceable under the standards
set forth in The Bremen." 810 F. 2d, at 1069. Rather, the
first question for consideration should have been
whether § 1404(a) itself controls respondent's request to
give effect to the parties' contractual choice of venue and
transfer this case to a Manhattan court. For the reasons
that follow, we hold that it does.
B
Section 1404(a) provides: "For the convenience of
parties and witnesses, in the interest of justice, a district
court may transfer any civil action to any other district
or division where it might have been brought." Under
the analysis outlined above, we first consider whether
this provision is sufficiently broad to control the issue
before the court. That issue is whether to transfer the
case to a court in Manhattan in accordance with the
forum-selection clause. We believe that the statute,
fairly construed, does cover the point in dispute.
Section 1404(a) is intended to place discretion in the
district court to adjudicate motions for transfer
according to an "individualized, case-by-case
consideration of convenience and fairness." Van Dusen
v. Barrack, 376 U.S. 612, 622 (1964). A motion to
transfer under § 1404(a) thus calls on the district court
to weigh in the balance a number of case-specific
factors. The presence of a forum-selection clause such as
the parties entered into in this case will be a significant
factor that figures centrally in the district court's
calculus. In its resolution of the § 1404(a) motion in this
case, for example, the District Court will be called on to
address such issues as the convenience of a Manhattan
forum given the parties' expressed preference for that
venue, and the fairness of transfer in light of the forumselection
clause and the parties' relative bargaining
power. The flexible and individualized analysis Congress
prescribed in § 1404(a) thus encompasses [487 U.S. 30]
consideration of the parties' private expression of their
venue preferences.
Section 1404(a) may not be the only potential source of
guidance for the District Court to consult in weighing
the parties' private designation of a suitable forum. The
premise of the dispute between the parties is that
Alabama law may refuse to enforce forum-selection
clauses providing for out-of-state venues as a matter of
state public policy.9 If that is so, the District Court will
have either to integrate the factor of the forum-selection
clause into its weighing of considerations as prescribed
by Congress, or else to apply, as it did in this case,
Alabama's categorical policy disfavoring forum-selection
clauses. Our cases make clear that, as between these two
choices in a single "field of operation," Burlington
Northern R. Co. v. Woods, 480 U. S., at 7, the
instructions of Congress are supreme. Cf. ibid. (where
federal law's "discretionary mode of operation" conflicts
with the nondiscretionary provision of Alabama law,
federal law applies in diversity).
It is true that § 1404(a) and Alabama's putative policy
regarding forum-selection clauses are not perfectly
coextensive. Section 1404(a) directs a district court to
take account of factors other than those that bear solely
on the parties' private ordering of their affairs. The
district court also must weigh in the balance the
convenience of the witnesses and those public-interest
factors of systemic integrity and fairness that, in
addition to private concerns, come under the heading of
"the interest of justice." It is conceivable in [487 U.S. 31]
a particular case, for example, that because of these
factors a district court acting under § 1404(a) would
refuse to transfer a case notwithstanding the
counterweight of a forum-selection clause, whereas the
coordinate state rule might dictate the opposite result.10
See 15 C. Wright, A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal
Practice and Procedure § 3847, p. 371 (2d ed. 1986). But
this potential conflict in fact frames an additional
argument for the supremacy of federal law. Congress
has directed that multiple considerations govern transfer
within the federal court system, and a state policy
focusing on a single concern or a subset of the factors
identified in § 1404(a) would defeat that command. Its
application would impoverish the flexible and
multifaceted analysis that Congress intended to govern
motions to transfer within the federal system. The
forum-selection clause, which represents the parties'
agreement as to the most proper forum, should receive
neither dispositive consideration (as respondent might
have it) nor no consideration (as Alabama law might
have it), but rather the consideration for which
Congress provided in § 1404(a). Cf. Norwood v.
Kirkpatrick, 349 U.S. 29, 32 (1955) (§ 1404(a) accords
broad discretion to district court, and plaintiff's choice
of forum is only one relevant factor for its
consideration). This is thus not a case in which state and
federal rules "can exist side by side . . . each controlling
its own intended sphere of coverage without conflict."
Walker v. Armco Steel Corp., 446 U. S., at 752.
Because § 1404(a) controls the issue before the District
Court, it must be applied if it represents a valid exercise
of [487 U.S. 32] Congress' authority under the
Constitution. The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact § 1404(a) is not subject to serious question. As
the Court made plain in Hanna, "the constitutional
provision for a federal court system . . . carries with it
congressional power to make rules governing the
practice and pleading in those courts, which in turn
includes a power to regulate matters which, though
falling within the uncertain area between substance and
procedure, are rationally capable of classification as
either." 380 U. S., at 472. See also id., at 473 ("Erie and
its offspring cast no doubt on the long-recognized
power of Congress to prescribe housekeeping rules for
federal courts"). Section 1404(a) is doubtless capable of
classification as a procedural rule, and indeed, we have
so classified it in holding that a transfer pursuant to §
1404(a) does not carry with it a change in the applicable
law. See Van Dusen v. Barrack, 376 U. S., at 636-637
("[B]oth the history and purposes of § 1404(a) indicate
that it should be regarded as a federal judicial
housekeeping measure"). It therefore falls comfortably
within Congress' powers under Article III as augmented
by the Necessary and Proper Clause. See Burlington
Northern R. Co. v. Woods, supra, at 5, n. 3.
We hold that federal law, specifically 28 U. S. C. §
1404(a), governs the District Court's decision whether
to give effect to the parties' forum-selection clause and
transfer this case to a court in Manhattan.11 We
therefore affirm the Eleventh Circuit order reversing
the District Court's application of Alabama law. The
case is remanded so that the District Court may
determine in the first instance the appropriate effect
under federal law of the parties' forum-selection clause
on respondent's § 1404(a) motion.
It is so ordered.