Phillip Brown lost a finger in a punch press at a Magic
Chef, Inc., plant in Anniston, Alabama. Mr. Brown was
unloading base rails for microwave ovens after they had
been formed by the dies on the press. After one
particular down and up cycle of the press ram, the ram
failed to stop at the top of the stroke as it was supposed
to and came down a second time and crushed Mr.
Brown's finger. Mr. Brown brought both negligence and
wantonness claims against the defendants, and his wife
asserted a claim for loss of consortium. The defendants
claimed that Phillip Brown was contributorily negligent.
The trial court directed verdicts in favor of the
defendants on the claim for wanton conduct. The jury
returned a verdict in favor of the defendants on the
negligence claim. It is not clear whether the jury found
an absence of negligent conduct or the presence of
contributory negligence. Contributory negligence acts as
a complete bar to an action based on negligence;
however, contributory negligence does not act as a bar
in an action based on wanton misconduct. See Burns v.
Moore, 494 So.2d 4 (Ala.1986). The only issue on this
appeal is whether the trial court erred in granting
directed verdicts on the wantonness claim in favor of
defendants Fred Gant, the plant manager; John Turner,
the personnel manager; and Richard Fleming, the
supervisor of the fabrication department.
In Caterpillar Tractor Co. v. Ford, 406 So.2d 854, at 856
(Ala.1981), this Court stated the standard of review for a
directed verdict:
"A directed verdict is proper only where there is a complete absence
of [497 So.2d 1120] proof on an issue material to the claim or where
there are no disputed questions of fact on which reasonable people
could differ. Deal v. Johnson, 362 So.2d 214 (Ala.1978). In
considering a motion for directed verdict, the court must apply
Rule 50(e), ARCP, under which `a question must go to the jury, if
the evidence, or any reasonable inference arising therefrom,
furnishes a mere gleam, glimmer, spark ... or a scintilla in support
of the theory of the complaint....' Dixie Electric Company v.
Maggio, 294 Ala. 411, 318 So.2d 274 (Ala.1975).
"In addition, the trial court must view the entire evidence, and all
reasonable inferences which a jury might have drawn therefrom, in
the light most favorable to the non-moving party. Alabama Power
Company v. Taylor, 293 Ala. 484, 306 So.2d 236 (1975); Vintage
Enterprises, Inc. v. Cash, 348 So.2d 476 (Ala.1977). Also, this
Court's function in reviewing a motion for a directed verdict is to
review the tendencies of the evidence most favorably to the nonmovant,
regardless of a view we may have as to the weight of the
evidence, and we must allow such reasonable inferences as the jury
were free to draw, not inferences which we may think the more
probable. Beloit Corp. v. Harrell, 339 So.2d 992 (Ala. 1976)."
Quoted with approval in Ritch v. Waldrop, 428 So.2d 1
(Ala.1982), and Pate v. Sunset Funeral Home, 465 So.2d
347, 348 (Ala. 1984).
What constitutes wanton misconduct depends upon the
facts presented in each particular case. Pate, 465 So.2d at
349; Westbrook v. Gibbs, 285 Ala. 223, 231 So.2d 97
(1970). In order for the trial court to find a party guilty
of wanton conduct, it must be shown that with reckless
indifference to the consequences the party consciously
and intentionally did some wrongful act or omitted
some known duty, and that this act or omission
produced the injury. Pate, 465 So.2d at 349; Roberts v.
Brown, 384 So.2d 1047 (Ala.1980).
Looking at the evidence in the light most favorable to
the plaintiffs in this case, it is clear that there was a
scintilla of evidence as to wanton misconduct on the
part of these three defendants. Mr. Brown's co-worker
Mike Robertson testified that he had complained
repeatedly to all three defendants about how that press
ram had often been "rolling over," or coming back down
too far after it had completed its cycle. Another coemployee
told Fleming of the tendency of that press to
fall. Evidence shows that the press was worked on the
day before the accident. There was evidence, however,
that on the day of the accident, the press continued to
"roll over" too far, and that Robertson complained to
Fleming several times. There was also evidence that
Phillip Brown complained to Fleming about the press
but was told not to worry about it and that it was not
going to hurt anything, and that even with these
complaints about the press, the defendants ordered that
production on that press be increased. There was also
evidence that on the way to the hospital immediately
following the accident, Phillip Brown stated to Turner,
"I told y'all and told y'all to get that press fixed," and that
Turner replied, "I know it."
This testimony presents at least a scintilla of evidence
that these three defendants acted wantonly. The jury
could have found that they had been informed of the
danger that the press presented to its operators yet failed
to take action to correct the problem. Whether these
defendants were guilty of wantonness is a jury question
under this evidence.
The trial court's judgment based on the directed verdicts
as to Turner, Gant, and Fleming is reversed, and the
case is remanded for a new trial on the plaintiffs' claim
for wanton conduct.