Today's opinion is an inspiring demonstration of how
thoroughly up-to-date and right-thinking we Justices
are in matters pertaining to the sexes (or as the Court
would have it, the genders), and how sternly we
disapprove the male chauvinist attitudes of our
predecessors. The price to be paid for this display—a
modest price, surely—is that most of the opinion is quite
irrelevant to the case at hand. The hasty reader will be
surprised to learn, for example, that this lawsuit
involves a complaint about the use of peremptory
challenges to exclude men from a petit jury. To be sure,
[511 U.S. 157] petitioner, a man, used all but one of his
peremptory strikes to remove women from the jury (he
used his last challenge to strike the sole remaining male
from the pool), but the validity of his strikes is not
before us. Nonetheless, the Court treats itself to an
extended discussion of the historic exclusion of women
not only from jury service, but also from service at the
bar (which is rather like jury service, in that it involves
going to the courthouse a lot). See ante, at 131— 136. All
this, as I say, is irrelevant, since the case involves state
action that allegedly discriminates against men. The
parties do not contest that discrimination on the basis of
sex1 is subject to what our cases call "heightened
scrutiny," and the citation of one of those cases
(preferably one involving men rather than women, see,
e. g., Mississippi Univ. for Women v. Hogan, 458 U.S.
718, 723-724 (1982)) is all that was needed.
The Court also spends time establishing that the use of
sex as a proxy for particular views or sympathies is
unwise and perhaps irrational. The opinion stresses the
lack of statistical evidence to support the widely held
belief that, at least in certain types of cases, a juror's sex
has some statistically significant predictive value as to
how the juror will behave. See ante, at 137-139, and n.
9. This assertion seems to place the Court in opposition
to its earlier Sixth Amendment "fair cross-section" cases.
See, e. g., Taylor v. Louisiana, 419 U.S. 522, 532, n. 12
(1975) ("Controlled studies . . . have concluded that
women bring to juries their own perspectives and values
that influence both jury deliberation [511 U.S. 158] and
result"). But times and trends do change, and unisex is
unquestionably in fashion. Personally, I am less inclined
to demand statistics, and more inclined to credit the
perceptions of experienced litigators who have had
money on the line. But it does not matter. The Court's
fervent defense of the proposition iln'ya pasde différence
entre les hommes et les femmes (it stereotypes the
opposite view as hateful "stereotyping") turns out to be,
like its recounting of the history of sex discrimination
against women, utterly irrelevant. Even if sex was a
remarkably good predictor in certain cases, the Court
would find its use in peremptories unconstitutional. See
ante, at 139, n. 11; cf. ante , at 148-149 (O'Connor, J.,
concurring).
Of course the relationship of sex to partiality would
have been relevant if the Court had demanded in this
case what it ordinarily demands: that the complaining
party have suffered some injury. Leaving aside for the
moment the reality that the defendant himself had the
opportunity to strike women from the jury, the
defendant would have some cause to complain about the
prosecutor's striking male jurors if male jurors tend to
be more favorable toward defendants in paternity suits.
But if men and women jurors are (as the Court thinks)
fungible, then the only arguable injury from the
prosecutor's "impermissible" use of male sex as the basis
for his peremptories is injury to the stricken juror, not
to the defendant. Indeed, far from having suffered harm,
petitioner, a state actor under our precedents, see
Georgia v. McCollum, 505 U.S. 42, 50-51 (1992); cf.
Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Co., 500 U.S. 614, 626-
627 (1991), has himself actually inflicted harm on female
jurors.2 The Court today [511 U.S. 159] presumably
supplies petitioner with a cause of action by applying the
uniquely expansive third-party standing analysis of
Powers v. Ohio, 499 U.S. 400, 415 (1991), according
petitioner a remedy because of the wrong done to male
jurors. This case illustrates why making restitution to
Paul when it is Peter who has been robbed is such a bad
idea. Not only has petitioner, by implication of the
Court's own reasoning, suffered no harm, but the
scientific evidence presented at trial established
petitioner's paternity with 99.92% accuracy. Insofar as
petitioner is concerned, this is a case of harmless error if
there ever was one; a retrial will do nothing but divert
the State's judicial and prosecutorial resources, allowing
either petitioner or some other malefactor to go free.
The core of the Court's reasoning is that peremptory
challenges on the basis of any group characteristic
subject to heightened scrutiny are inconsistent with the
guarantee of the Equal Protection Clause. That
conclusion can be reached only by focusing
unrealistically upon individual exercises of the
peremptory challenge, and ignoring the totality of the
practice. Since all groups are subject to the peremptory
challenge (and will be made the object of it, depending
upon the nature of the particular case) it is hard to see
how any group is denied equal protection. See id., at
423-424 (Scalia, J., dissenting); Batson v. Kentucky, 476
U.S. 79, 137-138 (1986) (Rehnquist, J., dissenting). That
explains why peremptory challenges coexisted with the
Equal Protection Clause for 120 years. This case is a
perfect example of how the system as a whole is
evenhanded. While the only claim before the Court is
petitioner's complaint that the prosecutor struck male
jurors, for every man [511 U.S. 160] struck by the
government petitioner's own lawyer struck a woman.
To say that men were singled out for discriminatory
treatment in this process is preposterous. The situation
would be different if both sides systematically struck
individuals of one group, so that the strikes evinced
groupbased animus and served as a proxy for segregated
venire lists. See Swain v. Alabama, 380 U.S. 202, 223-
224 (1965). The pattern here, however, displays not a
systemic sex-based animus but each side's desire to get a
jury favorably disposed to its case. That is why the
Court's characterization of respondent's argument as
"reminiscent of the arguments advanced to justify the
total exclusion of women from juries," ante, at 138, is
patently false. Women were categorically excluded from
juries because of doubt that they were competent;
women are stricken from juries by peremptory
challenge because of doubt that they are well disposed to
the striking party's case. See Powers, supra, at 424
(Scalia, J., dissenting). There is discrimination and
dishonor in the former, and not in the latter—which
explains the 106-year interlude between our holding
that exclusion from juries on the basis of race was
unconstitutional, Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U.S.
303 (1880), and our holding that peremptory challenges
on the basis of race were unconstitutional, Batson v.
Kentucky, supra .
Although the Court's legal reasoning in this case is
largely obscured by anti-male-chauvinist oratory, to the
extent such reasoning is discernible it invalidates much
more than sexbased strikes. After identifying unequal
treatment (by separating individual exercises of
peremptory challenge from the process as a whole), the
Court applies the "heightened scrutiny" mode of equal
protection analysis used for sexbased discrimination,
and concludes that the strikes fail heightened scrutiny
because they do not substantially further an important
government interest. The Court says that the only
important government interest that could be served by
peremptory strikes is "securing a fair and impartial [511
U.S. 161] jury," ante, at 137, and n. 8.3 It refuses to accept
respondent's argument that these strikes further that
interest by eliminating a group (men) which may be
partial to male defendants, because it will not accept any
argument based on "`the very stereotype the law
condemns.' " Ante, at 138 (quoting Powers, 499 U. S., at
410). This analysis, entirely eliminating the only
allowable argument, implies that sexbased strikes do not
even rationally further a legitimate government interest,
let alone pass heightened scrutiny. That places all
peremptory strikes based on any group characteristic at
risk, since they can all be denominated "stereotypes."
Perhaps, however (though I do not see why it should be
so), only the stereotyping of groups entitled to
heightened or strict scrutiny constitutes "the very
stereotype the law condemns"—so that other
stereotyping (e. g., wide-eyed blondes and football
players are dumb) remains OK. Or perhaps when the
Court refers to "impermissible stereotypes," ante, at 139,
n. 11, it means the adjective to be limiting rather than
descriptive—so that we can expect to learn from the
Court's peremptory/stereotyping jurisprudence in the
future which stereotypes the Constitution frowns upon
and which it does not.
Even if the line of our later cases guaranteed by today's
decision limits the theoretically boundless Batson
principle to race, sex, and perhaps other classifications
subject to heightened scrutiny (which presumably would
include religious belief, see Larson v. Valente, 456 U.S.
228, 244-246 (1982)), much damage has been done. It
has been done, first and foremost, to the peremptory
challenge system, which [511 U.S. 162] loses its whole
character when (in order to defend against
"impermissible stereotyping" claims) "reasons" for
strikes must be given. The right of peremptory
challenge "`is, as Blackstone says, an arbitrary and
capricious right; and it must be exercised with full
freedom, or it fails of its full purpose.' " Lewis v. United
States, 146 U.S. 370, 378 (1892), quoting Lamb v. State,
36 Wis. 424, 427 (1874). See also Lewis, supra, at 376;
United States v. Marchant, 12 Wheat. 480, 482 (1827)
(Story, J.); 4 W. Blackstone, Commentaries *353. The
loss of the real peremptory will be felt most keenly by
the criminal defendant, see Georgia v. McCollum, 505
U.S. 42 (1992), whom we have until recently thought
"should not be held to accept a juror, apparently
indifferent, whom he distrusted for any reason or for no
reason." Lamb, supra, at 426. And make no mistake
about it: there really is no substitute for the peremptory.
Voir dire (though it can be expected to expand as a
consequence of today's decision) cannot fill the gap. The
biases that go along with group characteristics tend to be
biases that the juror himself does not perceive, so that it
is no use asking about them. It is fruitless to inquire of a
male juror whether he harbors any subliminal prejudice
in favor of unwed fathers.
And damage has been done, secondarily, to the entire
justice system, which will bear the burden of the
expanded quest for "reasoned peremptories" that the
Court demands. The extension of Batson to sex, and
almost certainly beyond, cf. Batson, 476 U. S., at 124
(Burger, C. J., dissenting), will provide the basis for
extensive collateral litigation, which especially the
criminal defendant (who litigates full time and cost free)
can be expected to pursue. While demographic reality
places some limit on the number of cases in which racebased
challenges will be an issue, every case contains a
potential sex-based claim. Another consequence, as I
have mentioned, is a lengthening of the voir dire
process that already burdens trial courts.
[511 U.S. 163] The irrationality of today's strike-by-strike
approach to equal protection is evident from the
consequences of extending it to its logical conclusion. If
a fair and impartial trial is a prosecutor's only legitimate
goal; if adversarial trial stratagems must be tested against
that goal in abstraction from their role within the
system as a whole; and if, so tested, sex-based stratagems
do not survive heightened scrutiny—then the prosecutor
presumably violates the Constitution when he selects a
male or female police officer to testify because he
believes one or the other sex might be more convincing
in the context of the particular case, or because he
believes one or the other might be more appealing to a
predominantly male or female jury. A decision to stress
one line of argument or present certain witnesses before
a mostly female jury—for example, to stress that the
defendant victimized women—becomes, under the
Court's reasoning, intentional discrimination by a state
actor on the basis of gender.
* * *
In order, it seems to me, not to eliminate any real denial
of equal protection, but simply to pay conspicuous
obeisance to the equality of the sexes, the Court imperils
a practice that has been considered an essential part of
fair jury trial since the dawn of the common law. The
Constitution of the United States neither requires nor
permits this vandalizing of our people's traditions.
For these reasons, I dissent.