In Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U.S. 79 (1986), this Court
held that the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment governs the exercise of peremptory
challenges by a prosecutor in a criminal trial. The Court
explained that although a defendant has "no right to a
`petit jury composed in whole or in part of persons of
his own race,' " id. , at 85, quoting Strauder v. West
Virginia, 100 U.S. 303, 305 (1880), the "defendant does
have the right to be tried by a jury whose members are
selected pursuant to nondiscriminatory criteria," 476 U.
S., at 85-86. Since Batson, we have reaffirmed repeatedly
our commitment to jury selection procedures that are
fair and nondiscriminatory. We have recognized that
whether the trial is criminal or civil, potential jurors, as
well as litigants, have an equal protection right to jury
selection procedures that are free from state-sponsored
group stereotypes rooted in, and reflective of, historical
prejudice. See Powers v. Ohio, 499 U.S. 400 (1991);
Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Co., 500 U.S. 614
(1991); Georgia v. McCollum, 505 U.S. 42 (1992).
Although premised on equal protection principles that
apply equally to gender discrimination, all our recent
cases [511 U.S. 129] defining the scope of Batson involved
alleged racial discrimination in the exercise of
peremptory challenges. Today we are faced with the
question whether the Equal Protection Clause forbids
intentional discrimination on the basis of gender, just as
it prohibits discrimination on the basis of race. We hold
that gender, like race, is an unconstitutional proxy for
juror competence and impartiality.
I
On behalf of relator T. B., the mother of a minor child,
respondent State of Alabama filed a complaint for
paternity and child support against petitioner J. E. B. in
the District Court of Jackson County, Alabama. On
October 21, 1991, the matter was called for trial and jury
selection began. The trial court assembled a panel of 36
potential jurors, 12 males and 24 females. After the
court excused three jurors for cause, only 10 of the
remaining 33 jurors were male. The State then used 9 of
its 10 peremptory strikes to remove male jurors;
petitioner used all but one of his strikes to remove
female jurors. As a result, all the selected jurors were
female.
Before the jury was empaneled, petitioner objected to
the State's peremptory challenges on the ground that
they were exercised against male jurors solely on the
basis of gender, in violation of the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. App. 22.
Petitioner argued that the logic and reasoning of Batson
v. Kentucky, which prohibits peremptory strikes solely
on the basis of race, similarly forbids intentional
discrimination on the basis of gender. The court rejected
petitioner's claim and empaneled the all-female jury.
App. 23. The jury found petitioner to be the father of
the child, and the court entered an order directing him
to pay child support. On postjudgment motion, the
court reaffirmed its ruling that Batson does not extend
to genderbased peremptory challenges. App. 33. The
Alabama Court of Civil Appeals affirmed, 606 So.2d 156
(1992), relying [511 U.S. 130] on Alabama precedent, see,
e. g., Murphy v.State, 596 So.2d 42 (Ala. Crim. App.
1991), cert. denied, 506 U.S. 827 (1992), and Ex parte
Murphy, 596 So.2d 45 (Ala. 1992). The Supreme Court
of Alabama denied certiorari, No. 1911717 (Oct. 23,
1992).
We granted certiorari, 508 U.S. 905 (1993), to resolve a
question that has created a conflict of
authority—whether the Equal Protection Clause forbids
peremptory challenges on the basis of gender as well as
on the basis of race.1 Today we reaffirm what, by now,
should be axiomatic: Intentional discrimination on the
basis of gender by state actors violates [511 U.S. 131] the
Equal Protection Clause, particularly where, as here, the
discrimination serves to ratify and perpetuate invidious,
archaic, and overbroad stereotypes about the relative
abilities of men and women.
II
Discrimination on the basis of gender in the exercise of
peremptory challenges is a relatively recent
phenomenon. Gender-based peremptory strikes were
hardly practicable during most of our country's
existence, since, until the 20th century, women were
completely excluded from jury service.2 So well
entrenched was this exclusion of women that in 1880
this Court, while finding that the exclusion of AfricanAmerican
men from juries violated the Fourteenth
Amendment, expressed no doubt that a State "may
confine the selection [of jurors] to males." Strauder v.
West Virginia, 100 U. S., at 310; see also Fay v. New
York, 332 U.S. 261, 289-290 (1947).
Many States continued to exclude women from jury
service well into the present century, despite the fact
that women attained suffrage upon ratification of the
Nineteenth Amendment in 1920.3 States that did permit
women to serve on juries often erected other barriers,
such as registration requirements and automatic
exemptions, designed to deter women from exercising
their right to jury service. See, e. g., [511 U.S. 132] Fay v.
New York, 332 U. S., at 289 ("[I]n 15 of the 28 states
which permitted women to serve [on juries in 1942],
they might claim exemption because of their sex"); Hoyt
v. Florida, 368 U.S. 57 (1961) (upholding affirmative
registration statute that exempted women from
mandatory jury service).
The prohibition of women on juries was derived from
the English common law which, according to
Blackstone, rightfully excluded women from juries
under "the doctrine of propter defectum sexus, literally,
the `defect of sex.' " United States v. De Gross, 960 F.2d
1433, 1438 (CA9 1992) (en banc), quoting 2 W.
Blackstone, Commentaries *362.4 In this country,
supporters of the exclusion of women from juries
tended to couch their objections in terms of the
ostensible need to protect women from the ugliness and
depravity of trials. Women were thought to be too
fragile and virginal to withstand the polluted courtroom
atmosphere. See Bailey v. State, 215 Ark. 53, 61, 219
S.W.2d 424, 428 (1949) ("Criminal court trials often
involve testimony of the foulest kind, and they
sometimes require consideration of indecent conduct,
the use of filthy and loathsome words, references to
intimate sex relationships, and other elements that
would prove humiliating, embarrassing and degrading
to a lady"); In re Goodell, 39 Wis. 232, 245-246 (1875)
(endorsing statutory ineligibility of women for
admission to the bar because "[r]everence for all
womanhood would suffer in the public [511 U.S. 133]
spectacle of women . . . so engaged"); Bradwell v. State,
16 Wall. 130, 141 (1873) (concurring opinion) ("[T]he
civil law, as well as nature herself, has always recognized
a wide difference in the respective spheres and destinies
of man and woman. Man is, or should be, woman's
protector and defender. The natural and proper timidity
and delicacy which belongs to the female sex evidently
unfits it for many of the occupations of civil life. . . . The
paramount destiny and mission of woman are to fulfil
the noble and benign offices of wife and mother. This is
the law of the Creator"). Cf. Frontiero v. Richardson,
411 U.S. 677, 684 (1973) (plurality opinion) (This
"attitude of `romantic paternalism' . . . put women, not
on a pedestal, but in a cage").
This Court in Ballard v. United States, 329 U.S. 187
(1946), first questioned the fundamental fairness of
denying women the right to serve on juries. Relying on
its supervisory powers over the federal courts, it held
that women may not be excluded from the venire in
federal trials in States where women were eligible for
jury service under local law. In response to the
argument that women have no superior or unique
perspective, such that defendants are denied a fair trial
by virtue of their exclusion from jury panels, the Court
explained:
"It is said . . . that an all male panel drawn from the various groups
within a community will be as truly representative as if women
were included. The thought is that the factors which tend to
influence the action of women are the same as those which
influence the action of men—personality, background, economic
status—and not sex. Yet it is not enough to say that women when
sitting as jurors neither act nor tend to act as a class. Men likewise
do not act like a class. . . . The truth is that the two sexes are not
fungible; a community made up exclusively of one is different from
a community composed of both; the subtle interplay of influence
one on [511 U.S. 134] the other is among the imponderables. To
insulate the courtroom from either may not in a given case make an
iota of difference. Yet a flavor, a distinct quality is lost if either sex is
excluded." Id. , at 193-194 (footnotes omitted).
Fifteen years later, however, the Court still was
unwilling to translate its appreciation for the value of
women's contribution to civic life into an enforceable
right to equal treatment under state laws governing jury
service. In Hoyt v. Florida, 368 U. S., at 61, the Court
found it reasonable, "[d]espite the enlightened
emancipation of women," to exempt women from
mandatory jury service by statute, allowing women to
serve on juries only if they volunteered to serve. The
Court justified the differential exemption policy on the
ground that women, unlike men, occupied a unique
position "as the center of home and family life." Id. , at
62.
In 1975, the Court finally repudiated the reasoning of
Hoyt and struck down, under the Sixth Amendment, an
affirmative registration statute nearly identical to the
one at issue in Hoyt . See Taylor v. Louisiana, 419 U.S.
522 (1975).5 We explained: "Restricting jury service to
only special groups or excluding identifiable segments
playing major roles in the community cannot be squared
with the constitutional concept of jury trial." Id. , at 530.
The diverse and representative character of the jury
must be maintained "`partly as assurance of a diffused
impartiality and partly because sharing in the
administration of justice is a phase of civic
responsibility.' " Id. , at 530-531, quoting Thiel v.
Southern Pacific Co., 328 U.S. 217, 227 (1946)
(Frankfurter, [511 U.S. 135] J., dissenting). See also
Duren v. Missouri, 439 U.S. 357 (1979).
III
Taylor relied on Sixth Amendment principles, but the
opinion's approach is consistent with the heightened
equal protection scrutiny afforded gender-based
classifications. Since Reed v. Reed, 404 U.S. 71 (1971),
this Court consistently has subjected gender-based
classifications to heightened scrutiny in recognition of
the real danger that government policies that
professedly are based on reasonable considerations in
fact may be reflective of "archaic and overbroad"
generalizations about gender, see Schlesinger v. Ballard,
419 U.S. 498, 506-507 (1975), or based on "outdated
misconceptions concerning the role of females in the
home rather than in the `marketplace and world of
ideas.' " Craig v. Boren, 429 U.S. 190, 198-199 (1976).
See also Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473
U.S. 432, 441 (1985) (differential treatment of the sexes
"very likely reflect[s] outmoded notions of the relative
capabilities of men and women").
Despite the heightened scrutiny afforded distinctions
based on gender, respondent argues that gender
discrimination in the selection of the petit jury should be
permitted, though discrimination on the basis of race is
not. Respondent suggests that "gender discrimination in
this country . . . has never reached the level of
discrimination" against African-Americans, and
therefore gender discrimination, unlike racial
discrimination, is tolerable in the courtroom. Brief for
Respondent 9.
While the prejudicial attitudes toward women in this
country have not been identical to those held toward
racial minorities, the similarities between the
experiences of racial minorities and women, in some
contexts, "overpower those differences." Note, Beyond
Batson: Eliminating GenderBased Peremptory
Challenges, 105 Harv. L. Rev. 1920, 1921 [511 U.S. 136]
(1992). As a plurality of this Court observed in
Frontiero v. Richardson, 411 U. S., at 685:
"[T]hroughout much of the 19th century the position of women in
our society was, in many respects, comparable to that of blacks
under the pre-Civil War slave codes. Neither slaves nor women
could hold office, serve on juries, or bring suit in their own names,
and married women traditionally were denied the legal capacity to
hold or convey property or to serve as legal guardians of their own
children. . . . And although blacks were guaranteed the right to vote
in 1870, women were denied even that right—which is itself
`preservative of other basic civil and political rights'—until adoption
of the Nineteenth Amendment half a century later." (Footnote
omitted.)
Certainly, with respect to jury service, AfricanAmericans
and women share a history of total exclusion,
a history which came to an end for women many years
after the embarrassing chapter in our history came to an
end for African-Americans.
We need not determine, however, whether women or
racial minorities have suffered more at the hands of
discriminatory state actors during the decades of our
Nation's history. It is necessary only to acknowledge that
"our Nation has had a long and unfortunate history of
sex discrimination," id., at 684, a history which warrants
the heightened scrutiny we afford all gender-based
classifications today. Under our equal protection
jurisprudence, gender-based classifications require "an
exceedingly persuasive justification" in order to survive
constitutional scrutiny. See Personnel Administrator of
Mass. v. Feeney, 442 U.S. 256, 273 (1979). See also
Mississippi Univ. for Women v. Hogan, 458 U.S. 718,
724 (1982); Kirchberg v. Feenstra, 450 U.S. 455, 461
(1981). Thus, the only question is whether
discrimination on the basis of gender in jury selection
substantially furthers the State's legitimate interest in
achieving a fair and impartial [511 U.S. 137] trial.6 In
making this assessment, we do not weigh the value of
peremptory challenges as an institution against our
asserted commitment to eradicate invidious
discrimination from the courtroom.7 Instead, we
consider whether peremptory challenges based on
gender stereotypes provide substantial aid to a litigant's
effort to secure a fair and impartial jury.8
Far from proffering an exceptionally persuasive
justification for its gender-based peremptory challenges,
respondent maintains that its decision to strike virtually
all the males from the jury in this case "may reasonably
have been based upon the perception, supported by
history, that men otherwise totally qualified to serve
upon a jury in any case might [511 U.S. 138] be more
sympathetic and receptive to the arguments of a man
alleged in a paternity action to be the father of an outofwedlock
child, while women equally qualified to serve
upon a jury might be more sympathetic and receptive to
the arguments of the complaining witness who bore the
child." Brief for Respondent 10.9
We shall not accept as a defense to gender-based
peremptory challenges "the very stereotype the law
condemns." Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S., at 410.
Respondent's rationale, not unlike those regularly
expressed for gender-based strikes, is reminiscent of the
arguments advanced to justify the total exclusion of
women from juries.10 Respondent offers [511 U.S. 139]
virtually no support for the conclusion that gender alone
is an accurate predictor of juror's attitudes; yet it urges
this Court to condone the same stereotypes that justified
the wholesale exclusion of women from juries and the
ballot box.11 Respondent seems to assume that gross
generalizations that would be deemed impermissible if
made on the [511 U.S. 140] basis of race are somehow
permissible when made on the basis of gender.
Discrimination in jury selection, whether based on race
or on gender, causes harm to the litigants, the
community, and the individual jurors who are
wrongfully excluded from participation in the judicial
process. The litigants are harmed by the risk that the
prejudice that motivated the discriminatory selection of
the jury will infect the entire proceedings. See
Edmonson, 500 U. S., at 628 (discrimination in the
courtroom "raises serious questions as to the fairness of
the proceedings conducted there"). The community is
harmed by the State's participation in the perpetuation
of invidious group stereotypes and the inevitable loss of
confidence in our judicial system that state-sanctioned
discrimination in the courtroom engenders.
When state actors exercise peremptory challenges in
reliance on gender stereotypes, they ratify and reinforce
prejudicial views of the relative abilities of men and
women. Because these stereotypes have wreaked
injustice in so many other spheres of our country's
public life, active discrimination by litigants on the basis
of gender during jury selection "invites cynicism
respecting the jury's neutrality and its obligation to
adhere to the law." Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S., at 412.
The potential for cynicism is particularly acute in cases
where gender-related issues are prominent, such as cases
involving rape, sexual harassment, or paternity.
Discriminatory use of peremptory challenges may create
the impression that the judicial system has acquiesced in
suppressing full participation by one gender or that the
"deck has been stacked" in favor of one side. See id., at
413 ("The verdict will not be accepted or understood [as
fair] if the jury is chosen by unlawful means at the
outset").
In recent cases we have emphasized that individual
jurors themselves have a right to nondiscriminatory jury
selection [511 U.S. 141] procedures.12 See Powers, supra,
Edmonson, supra, and Georgia v. McCollum, 505 U.S.
42 (1992). Contrary to respondent's suggestion, this
right extends to both men and women. See Mississippi
Univ. for Women v. Hogan, 458 U. S, at 723 (that a
state practice "discriminates against males rather than
against females does not exempt it from scrutiny or
reduce the standard of review"); cf. Brief for Respondent
9 (arguing that men deserve no protection from gender
discrimination in jury selection because they are not
victims of historical discrimination). All persons, when
granted the opportunity to serve on a jury, have the
right not to be excluded summarily because of
discriminatory and stereotypical presumptions that
reflect and reinforce patterns [511 U.S. 142] of historical
discrimination.13 Striking individual jurors on the
assumption that they hold particular views simply
because of their gender is "practically a brand upon
them, affixed by the law, an assertion of their
inferiority." Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S., at 308.
It denigrates the dignity of the excluded juror, and, for a
woman, reinvokes a history of exclusion from political
participation.14 The message itsends to all those in the
courtroom, and all those who may later learn of the
discriminatory act, is that certain individuals, for no
reason other than gender, are presumed unqualified by
state actors to decide important questions upon which
reasonable persons could disagree.15
[511 U.S. 143] IV
Our conclusion that litigants may not strike potential
jurors solely on the basis of gender does not imply the
elimination of all peremptory challenges. Neither does it
conflict with a State's legitimate interest in using such
challenges in its effort to secure a fair and impartial jury.
Parties still may remove jurors who they feel might be
less acceptable than others on the panel; gender simply
may not serve as a proxy for bias. Parties may also
exercise their peremptory challenges to remove from
the venire any group or class of individuals normally
subject to "rational basis" review. See Cleburne v.
Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473 U. S., at 439— 442;
Clark v. Jeter, 486 U.S. 456, 461 (1988). Even strikes
based on characteristics that are disproportionately
associated with one gender could be appropriate, absent
a showing of pretext.16
If conducted properly, voir dire can inform litigants
about potential jurors, making reliance upon
stereotypical and pejorative notions about a particular
gender or race both unnecessary and unwise. Voir dire
provides a means of discovering actual or implied bias
and a firmer basis upon which the [511 U.S. 144] parties
may exercise their peremptory challenges intelligently.
See, e. g., Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart, 427 U.S. 539,
602 (1976) (Brennan, J., concurring in judgment) (voir
dire "facilitate[s] intelligent exercise of peremptory
challenges and [helps] uncover factors that would
dictate disqualification for cause"); United States v.
Witt, 718 F.2d 1494, 1497 (CA10 1983) ("Without an
adequate foundation [laid by voir dire ], counsel cannot
exercise sensitive and intelligent peremptory
challenges").
The experience in the many jurisdictions that have
barred gender-based challenges belies the claim that
litigants and trial courts are incapable of complying with
a rule barring strikes based on gender. See n. 1, supra
(citing state and federal jurisdictions that have extended
Batson to gender).17 As with race-based Batson claims, a
party alleging gender discrimination must make a prima
facie showing of intentional [511 U.S. 145] discrimination
before the party exercising the challenge is required to
explain the basis for the strike. Batson, 476 U. S., at 97.
When an explanation is required, it need not rise to the
level of a "for cause" challenge; rather, it merely must be
based on a juror characteristic other than gender, and
the proffered explanation may not be pretextual. See
Hernandez v. New York, 500 U.S. 352 (1991).
Failing to provide jurors the same protection against
gender discrimination as race discrimination could
frustrate the purpose of Batson itself. Because gender
and race are overlapping categories, gender can be used
as a pretext for racial discrimination.18 Allowing parties
to remove racial minorities from the jury not because of
their race, but because of their gender, contravenes
well-established equal protection principles and could
insulate effectively racial discrimination from judicial
scrutiny.
V
Equal opportunity to participate in the fair
administration of justice is fundamental to our
democratic system.19 It not [511 U.S. 146] only furthers
the goals of the jury system. It reaffirms the promise of
equality under the law—that all citizens, regardless of
race, ethnicity, or gender, have the chance to take part
directly in our democracy. Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S., at
407 ("Indeed, with the exception of voting, for most
citizens the honor and privilege of jury duty is their
most significant opportunity to participate in the
democratic process"). When persons are excluded from
participation in our democratic processes solely because
of race or gender, this promise of equality dims, and the
integrity of our judicial system is jeopardized.
In view of these concerns, the Equal Protection Clause
prohibits discrimination in jury selection on the basis of
gender, or on the assumption that an individual will be
biased in a particular case for no reason other than the
fact that the person happens to be a woman or happens
to be a man. As with race, the "core guarantee of equal
protection, ensuring citizens that their State will not
discriminate . . . , would be meaningless were we to
approve the exclusion of jurors on the basis of such
assumptions, which arise solely from the jurors'
[gender]." Batson, 476 U. S., at 97-98.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals of Alabama
is reversed, and the case is remanded to that court for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.