The panel has voted unanimously to amend the opinion
previously issued in this case. The amended opinion is
attached and is ordered filed.
With that amendment, the panel has voted to deny the
petition for rehearing and suggestion for rehearing en
banc.
The full court has been advised of the suggestion for
rehearing en banc, and of the proposed amendment to
the opinion, and no judge of the court has requested a
vote to rehear the matter en banc.
The petition for rehearing is hereby denied and the
suggestion for rehearing en banc is rejected.
OPINION
CANBY, Circuit Judge:
Appellant, Reverend Dusty Pruitt, appeals from the
district court's dismissal, pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P.
12(b)(6), of her first and fifth amendment challenges to
Army regulations requiring her discharge from the U.S.
Army Reserve (USAR) because of her acknowledged
homosexuality. We affirm in part and reverse in part.
BACKGROUND
The facts of this case are not in dispute. Reverend Pruitt
served in the U.S. Army between January 1971 and July
1975, ultimately rising to the rank of Captain. After
leaving active service to seek ordination as a methodist
minister, Pruitt remained an officer in the U.S. Army
Reserve (USAR). On May 25, 1982, Pruitt was notified
of her selection for promotion to the rank of Major
effective February 6, 1983. Pruitt's outstanding record in
both active and reserve service is undisputed.
On January 27, 1983, the Los Angeles Times published
an interview with Pruitt which revealed that she was a
lesbian and had twice gone through ceremonies of
marriage to other women. The article focused on
Pruitt's struggle to resolve personal contradictions
between her religion and military career, and her
sexuality. Through this article the Army first learned of
Pruitt's homosexuality. On the basis of this information,
the Army suspended Pruitt's promotion to Major
pending an investigation to determine whether Pruitt
should be separated from the Army Reserve pursuant to
AR 135-175, which mandates the discharge of
homosexual service-members.
On April 4, 1983, Pruitt filed this action in district court.
In her complaint, Pruitt declared that she was
homosexual. She alleged, however, that the Army was
barred by the first amendment from discharging her
solely on the basis of her admission of homosexuality.
1
The district court denied the Army's motion to dismiss
without prejudice and stayed the action pending
completion by the Army of its administrative
investigation.
On April 17, 1984, the Army advised Pruitt of its
intention to revoke her security clearance on the ground
that "substantial evidence of record [supports the
conclusion] that you are a practicing homosexual
(lesbian) as defined by paragraph 2-38, AR 135-175."
2
Pruitt responded on May 16, 1984 by letter to the Army
contesting the 
[963 F.2d 1162]
 proposed revocation of
her clearance. In the letter, Pruitt again admitted her
homosexuality:
I am a homosexual. I do not believe that as a homosexual woman, I
am a security risk; therefore, I cannot see what the matter of my
being a homosexual has to do with my security clearance....
Although the record is clear that Pruitt is homosexual,
there is no evidence in this case that she engaged in
homosexual acts, or made any advance toward any
active or reserve soldier that might be construed as
homosexual conduct.
An Army Administrative Board ("Board") convened on
September 7, 1985 to determine whether sufficient
evidence supported the conclusion that Pruitt was
homosexual. The Board accepted into evidence the
following: Pruitt's Complaint for Declaratory Relief filed
April 4, 1983 (in which she declared she was
homosexual); the Los Angeles Times article; the letter of
May 16, 1984 in which Pruitt explicitly informed the
Army of her homosexuality; and Pruitt's military record.
Pruitt attended the proceeding and was represented by
legal counsel, but she refused to testify before the board.
She made no effort to challenge the veracity of the
newspaper articles, or to explain what she meant when
she identified herself as homosexual. The Board
concluded that Pruitt was a homosexual within the
meaning of AR 135-175, and recommended that she be
honorably discharged.
3 
 The Board's recommendation
was accepted by the review authority of the Department
of the Army and Pruitt received an honorable discharge
on July 9, 1986.
Upon learning of the discharge, Pruitt renoticed her
motion for summary judgment, and the Army
responded by renewing its motion to dismiss. The
district court denied Pruitt's motion for summary
judgment, and granted the Army's motion to dismiss,
stating that the Army's determination that homosexual
personnel are incompatible with its military mission is
entitled to substantial deference. This appeal followed.
We withdrew this case from submission pending the en
banc decision of this court in Watkins v. United States
Army, 875 F.2d 699 (9th Cir.1989), cert. denied, ___
U.S. ___, 111 S.Ct. 384, 112 L.Ed.2d 395 (1990), a case
raising an equal protection challenge to regulations
similar to those challenged by Pruitt. Watkins was
decided on May 3, 1989. The Watkins en banc court,
however, did not reach the equal protection issue,
instead deciding the case on estoppel grounds. Because
the facts of this case do not support an estoppel
argument, the Watkins opinion has little impact on this
decision. We resubmitted this case and now address
Pruitt's constitutional claims. We have jurisdiction over
this appeal under 28 U.S.C. 
§
 1291.
STANDARD OF REVIEW
The district court's denial of Pruitt's motion for
summary judgment and granting 
[963 F.2d 1163]
 of the
Army's motion to dismiss present questions of law
which we review de novo. See Darring v. Kincheloe,
783 F.2d 874, 876 (9th Cir.1986) (summary judgment);
Mack v. South Bay Beer Distribs., Inc., 798 F.2d 1279,
1282 (9th Cir.1986) (dismissal).
DISCUSSION
I. First Amendment Claim
Pruitt characterizes her involuntary discharge as a
violation of her rights to free speech guaranteed by the
first amendment. She concedes that the Army
legitimately may proscribe homosexual conduct in the
military context. Nevertheless, because there is no
allegation that she engaged in homosexual activity while
on duty or performed inadequately as an officer, she
contends that her discharge was based on protected
expression—her public assertions of her sexuality
recorded in the Los Angeles Times article.
Under the Army's regulation, a member may be
discharged for stating that he or she is homosexual even
absent proof of homosexual conduct, AR 135-175, 
¶
 2-
39. Pruitt argues that this regulation is facially invalid
because it inhibits pure speech, infringes on the right to
receive information, and is not necessary to promote the
military's interests. Alternatively, Pruitt argues that AR
135-175 is unconstitutional as applied in her case.
Because the allegations of the complaint establish that
Pruitt was not discharged for her speech, a threshold
requirement for implicating the first amendment, we
reject these arguments. See Johnson v. Orr, 617 F.Supp.
170, 172, 174 (E.D.Cal.1985) (describing as "specious" a
first amendment claim similar to that raised by Pruitt)
aff'd mem., 787 F.2d 597 (9th Cir.1986). Pruitt argues
that her statements about her sexual orientation
constituted political speech, touching on a matter of
public concern. It is true that the substance of the Los
Angeles Times article was protected speech.
Nevertheless, Pruitt was discharged not for the content
of her speech, but for being a homosexual. Addressing
this issue in a virtually identical case, the Seventh
Circuit recently said:
[Appellant] is free under the regulation to say anything she pleases
about homosexuality and about the Army's policy toward
homosexuality. She is free to advocate that the Army change its
stance; she is free to know and talk to homosexuals if she wishes.
What [appellant] cannot do, and remain in the Army, is to declare
herself to be a homosexual. Although that is, in some sense speech,
it is also an act of identification. And it is the identity that makes
her ineligible for military service, not the speaking of it aloud.
Ben-Shalom v. Marsh, 881 F.2d 454, 462 (7th Cir.1989)
(emphasis in original), cert. denied, 494 U.S. 1004, 110
S.Ct. 1296, 108 L.Ed.2d 473 (1990).
This language applies equally well here. A central
problem underlying Pruitt's first amendment argument
is that it is based, understandably enough, on the
classical dichotomy between the punishment of speech
and the punishment of conduct. Because she was not
discharged for her conduct, Pruitt concludes that she
was discharged for her speech. The Army, however, is
not discharging members just for homosexual conduct,
or even primarily for homosexual conduct. It is
discharging members because of their status as
homosexuals. The pertinent portion of the regulation is
entitled "Separation for Homosexuality." A homosexual
is defined not only as a person who commits
homosexual acts, but as one who "desires to engage" in
them. AR 135-175, 
¶
 2-38a. An officer who engages in a
homosexual act may be spared from separation if several
facts are found, including the fact that "[s]uch conduct is
a departure from the member's usual and customary
behavior," and that "[t]he member does not desire to
engage in or intend to engage in homosexual acts." Id. at
¶
 2-39a(1), (5). In short, an officer who commits a
homosexual act can remain in the service if he or she is
not a homosexual, but must be separated if he or she is
homosexual. See Watkins, 875 F.2d at 712-716
(concurring opinion) (Army's reenlistment ban based on
homosexual orientation, not conduct).
The Army did not discharge Pruitt because she spoke
candidly about her sexuality to a newspaper. Nor did it
discharge her for publicly expressing her views on a
timely and controversial subject, or for demonstrating
compassion for and association 
[963 F.2d 1164]
 with
homosexuals. The Army discharged Pruitt because she
admitted to being homosexual, and AR 135-175, 
§§
 2-
39 through 2-44, require separation of homosexual
officers from the armed forces. That it was her
homosexuality, and not her speech, that caused Pruitt to
be discharged is apparent from the subsection of the
regulation under which she was discharged. It provides
for separation of a member who "has stated that he/she
is a homosexual or bisexual unless there is a further
finding that the member is not a homosexual or
bisexual." AR 135-175, 
¶
 2-39b (emphasis added).
Pruitt's admission, like most admissions, was made in
speech, but that does not mean that the first amendment
precludes the use of the admission as evidence of the
facts admitted. See High Tech Gays v. Defense Indus.
Security Clearance Office, 895 F.2d 563, 578-80 (9th
Cir.1990). Pruitt admitted homosexuality and was
discharged for it. The question is not whether the Army
is free to discharge her for her speech, because it did not
do so. The question is whether the Army is entitled to
discharge her for her homosexuality —an issue not
encompassed by Pruitt's first amendment claim.
II. Equal Protection Claim
Although Pruitt's complaint contained general
allegations that the regulation requiring her discharge
was unconstitutional, she did not articulate an equal
protection claim. Pruitt's complaint, however, and the
entire action were dismissed under Fed. R.Civ.P.
12(b)(6), for failure to state a claim. "[A] complaint
should not be dismissed for failure to state a claim unless
it appears beyond doubt that the plaintiff can prove no
set of facts in support of his claim which would entitle
him to relief." Conley v. Gibson, 355 U.S. 41, 45-46, 78
S.Ct. 99, 101-02, 2 L.Ed.2d 80 (1957) (footnote omitted).
Even more to the point, "[a] party does not need to
plead specific legal theories in the complaint, as long as
the opposing party receives notice as to what is at issue
in the lawsuit." Electrical Constr. & Maint. Co. v. Maeda
Pacific Corp., 764 F.2d 619, 622 (9th Cir.1985); accord
McCalden v. California Library Ass'n, 919 F.2d 538, 546
(9th Cir.1990). "The complaint should not be dismissed
merely because plaintiff's allegations do not support the
legal theory he intends to proceed on, since the court is
under a duty to examine the complaint to determine if
the allegations provide for relief on any possible theory."
5A C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and
Procedure 
§
 1357, at 336-37 (1990).
Pruitt's complaint included allegations that the Army
was discharging her because of her status as a
homosexual. She alleged, for example, that "the
defendants do systematically remove homosexuals who
are similarly situated to the plaintiff from the Armed
Services of the United States and the United States
Army on the basis of thoughts, speech and status."
Complaint, 
¶
 21. These and the other facts pleaded by
Pruitt are sufficient, in our view, to state an equal
protection claim. At the minimum, they give notice that
Pruitt could easily amend to state an equal protection
claim—an opportunity she was not afforded.
Although the equal protection issue was not articulated
in the complaint, it has been argued on appeal. The
Army does not contend that Pruitt has failed to allege
that she was discriminated against because of her
homosexuality. Instead, the Army argues that its right to
discharge homosexual servicepersons is so firmly
supported in the law that any equal protection claim that
Pruitt has asserted or might assert is legally insufficient
on its face.
The Army first relies on Beller v. Middendorf, 632 F.2d
788 (9th Cir.1980), cert. denied, 452 U.S. 905, 101 S.Ct.
3030, 69 L.Ed.2d 405, 454 U.S. 855, 102 S.Ct. 304, 70
L.Ed.2d 150 (1981), in which we upheld the discharge
from the Navy of three enlisted persons who had
engaged in homosexual acts. In analyzing the Navy's
actions under a due process standard, we held that there
were several grounds on which the regulation could be
upheld: "The Navy can act to protect the fabric of
military life, to preserve the integrity of the recruiting
process, to maintain the discipline of personnel in active
service, and to insure the acceptance of men and women
in the military, who are sometimes stationed in foreign
countries with cultures different from our own." Id. at
811.
[963 F.2d 1165]
 Beller, however, is distinguishable in
three respects, and its holding is weakened in a fourth.
First, the servicepersons in that case were discharged for
homosexual conduct, not homosexual status. Pruitt does
not dispute that the Army can discharge members for at
least certain kinds of homosexual conduct, but she
alleges that she was discharged for her status, with no
evidence of conduct. Second, Beller was an appeal from
several summary judgments. The Navy had submitted
evidence to support the due process underpinnings of its
regulation. Here the case was dismissed on motion; the
Army has submitted no evidence justifying its
regulation, and Pruitt has had no opportunity to dispute
that evidence. Third, and most important, Beller was a
substantive due process case. It did not deal with
discrimination as such, or with the requisite level of
justification for discrimination. That fact is significant in
light of the later decision in City of Cleburne v.
Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473 U.S. 432, 105 S.Ct.
3249, 87 L.Ed.2d 313 (1985), discussed below.
Finally, one of the justifications offered by the Navy in
Beller was the tension "between known homosexuals
and other members who `despise/detest
homosexuality.'" Beller, 632 F.2d at 811. To the degree
that Beller may thus have rested on prejudice of others
against homosexuals themselves, rather than on
disapproval of specific acts of criminal conduct, its
reasoning is undercut by Palmore v. Sidoti, 466 U.S.
429, 104 S.Ct. 1879, 80 L.Ed.2d 421 (1984). In Palmore,
the Supreme Court struck down a denial of custody of a
child based on social disapproval of the interracial
marriage of her mother. In so ruling, the Court said:
"The Constitution cannot control such prejudices but
neither can it tolerate them. Private biases may be
outside the reach of the law, but the law cannot, directly
or indirectly, give them effect." Id. at 433, 104 S.Ct. at
1882. Cleburne made clear that this principle is not
confined to instances of racial discrimination reviewed
under strict scrutiny. Cleburne, 473 U.S. at 448, 105
S.Ct. at 3258. This justification accepted in Beller,
therefore, should not be given unexamined effect today
as a matter of law.
4
The next case upon which the government principally
relies is High Tech Gays v. Defense Indus. Security
Clearance Office, 895 F.2d 563 (9th Cir.1990), upon
which we requested and received supplemental briefing
from the parties. In High Tech Gays, homosexual
defense workers brought an equal protection challenge
to the practice of the Department of Defense of
routinely subjecting homosexuals to expanded
investigations and adjudications prior to granting them
security clearances. We rejected the contention that a
classification of homosexuals was entitled to strict
scrutiny, and instead required that the Department of
Defense policy have a rational basis. Id. at 571-74. We
then found that the Department's policy had a rational
basis because foreign intelligence agencies had been
shown to target homosexuals as potentially vulnerable
to compromise. Id. at 576.
High Tech Gays will not, however, do the service the
government asks of it. It is true that we found the
discrimination against homosexuals in that case to have
a rational basis, but it is clear that we applied the type of
"active" rational basis review employed by the Supreme
Court in 
[963 F.2d 1166]
 City of Cleburne v. Cleburne
Living Center, Inc., 473 U.S. 432, 105 S.Ct. 3249, 87
L.Ed.2d 313 (1985). In Cleburne, the Supreme Court
held that the City had failed to show a rational basis for
its requirement that homes for the mentally retarded
obtain a special permit, when other care and multiple-
dwelling facilities needed no such permit. Relying on
Palmore, the Court specifically rejected the legitimacy of
relying on opposition to the home by neighbors.
"[M]ere negative attitudes, or fear, unsubstantiated by
factors which are properly cognizable in a zoning
proceeding, are not permissible bases for treating a
home for the mentally retarded differently from
apartment houses, multiple dwellings, and the like." Id.
at 448, 105 S.Ct. at 3259. The Court observed that "this
record does not clarify how, in this connection, the
characteristics of the intended occupants of the
Featherston home rationally justify denying to those
occupants what would be permitted to groups
occupying the same site for different purposes." Id. at
450, 105 S.Ct. at 3259.
In High Tech Gays, we relied on Cleburne and
performed the same type of review to see whether the
government had established on the record a rational
basis for the challenged discrimination.
5 
 The
government submitted, and we reviewed declarations of
officials that explained the practice of foreign
intelligence agencies (notably the KGB) to target
homosexuals. High Tech Gays, 895 F.2d at 576-77. The
declarations referred to and incorporated expert
testimony to the same effect. Id. Finally, we rejected as
insufficient the plaintiffs' affidavits attempting to
establish that the KGB's policy of targeting homosexuals
was irrational; we ruled that the Department was
entitled to take the KGB's practices into account even if
they were irrational. Id. at 578.
It is clear, then, that in High Tech Gays, upon plaintiffs'
showing of discrimination, we required the government
to establish on the record that its policy had a rational
basis. The Supreme Court imposed the same
requirement in Cleburne. Neither case supports the
contention of the Army here that its far more rigid
discrimination against homosexuals should be held to be
rational as a matter of law, without any justification in
the record at all. We have before us only a complaint
that has been dismissed for failure to state a claim. After
Palmore, Cleburne and High Tech Gays, we cannot say
that the complaint is insufficient on its face. Assuming
that Pruitt supports her allegations with evidence, we
will not spare the Army the task, which those cases
imposed, of offering a rational basis for its regulation,
nor will we deprive Pruitt of the opportunity to contest
that basis.
III. Deference to the Military
Finally, the Army urges that we should defer to the
military judgment. We readily acknowledge, as we
must, that military decisions by the Army are not lightly
to be overruled by the judiciary. See, e.g., Rostker v.
Goldberg, 453 U.S. 57, 64-68, 101 S.Ct. 2646, 2651-54,
69 L.Ed.2d 478 (1981); Goldman v. Weinberger, 475
U.S. 503, 507, 106 S.Ct. 1310, 89 L.Ed.2d 478 (1986).
That admonition, however, is best applied in the process
of judging whether the reasons put forth on the record
for the Army's discrimination against Pruitt are
rationally related to any of the Army's permissible goals.
We have no doubt that the district court will remain
aware of the proper respective roles of the military and
the judiciary in entertaining further proceedings in this
case.
If we now deferred, on this appeal, to the military
judgment by affirming the dismissal of the action in the
absence of any 
[963 F.2d 1167]
 supporting factual record,
we would come close to denying reviewability at all.
While we have acknowledged that there are some
internal military matters that are totally exempt from
judicial review, we have also identified many that are
reviewable. See Wallace v. Chappell, 661 F.2d 729, 733
n. 4 (9th Cir.1981), rev'd on other grounds, 462 U.S.
296, 103 S.Ct. 2362, 76 L.Ed.2d 586 (1983). In Wallace,
we adopted the test of Mindes v. Seaman, 453 F.2d 197
(5th Cir. 1971),
6 
 to determine the reviewability of
military decisions. The Army does not argue —and the
district court did not hold— that the Mindes test
precludes review here. Indeed, the validity of a
regulation similar to the one before us was reviewed in
Beller. The Army does not ask us to deny review; it asks
us to uphold its regulation without a record to support
its rational basis. This we decline to do.
IV. Conclusion
Pruitt failed to state a first amendment claim; the district
court did not err in denying her motion for summary
judgment. The district court erred, however, in
dismissing Pruitt's action on the ground that her
complaint failed to state a claim for relief. Her complaint
alleges facts sufficient to state an equal protection claim.
We reverse the judgment of dismissal, and remand for
further appropriate proceedings, including those
directed toward determining whether the Army's
discrimination is rationally related to a permissible
governmental purpose.
Pruitt is entitled to her costs on this appeal.
AFFIRMED IN PART, REVERSED IN PART, AND
REMANDED.