Appellants, employees of the City of Grenada,
Mississippi's fire department, filed suit against the City,
and against present and former city council members
and management employees in their official and
individual capacities, alleging that the City had violated
overtime compensation provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. § 201 et seq. (FLSA), by
refusing to pay appellants for "sleep time" in accordance
with 29 U.S.C. § 207(a) and (k) and 29 C.F.R. § 553.222.
They additionally demanded overtime compensation for
all fire personnel holding the rank of fire captain,
contending that the City had wrongly classified fire
captains as salaried employees under 29 C.F.R. § 541.1
to avoid FLSA [988 F.2d 1428] overtime provisions.
Appellants asserted, alternatively, that should they not
be entitled to recover full sleep time pay, they were at
least entitled under § 553.222 to payment for unpaid
sleep interruptions.
Upon a motion by appellees for partial summary
judgment, the district court dismissed appellants' claims
for sleep time compensation, holding that the claim was
barred by the FLSA's three-year statute of limitations,
and dismissed appellants' individual capacity claims
against appellees, concluding that in their individual
capacities, appellees were not FLSA employers. The
court further granted summary judgment for the City
on appellants' claim relating to the status of captains as
exempt salaried employees. The court, however, refused
to grant summary judgment for the City on appellants'
claim for interrupted sleep time compensation.
Following trial, that issue was submitted to the jury, as
the sole issue for its consideration, which found in favor
of appellees. The district court denied appellants'
motion for a new trial and this appeal followed. For the
reasons that follow, we affirm the district court's
disposition of appellants' claims.
BACKGROUND
In 1985, the United States Supreme Court ruled in
Garcia v. San Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority,
469 U.S. 528, 105 S.Ct. 1005, 83 L.Ed.2d 1016 (1985),
that the FLSA, including its minimum wage and
overtime provisions, applies to municipalities. The
FLSA exempts from its overtime provisions employers
of firefighters if certain conditions are satisfied, that is,
such employers are required to pay overtime only if the
hours worked in a 28-day work period exceed 212
hours. Further, FLSA regulations specifically address
the compensability of sleep time, providing at 29 C.F.R.
§ 553.222(c) that a public employer may exclude sleep
time of firefighters who are on a scheduled tour of duty
of more than 24 hours, if, "but only if there is an
expressed or implied agreement between the employer
and the employees to exclude such time" from hours
worked. 29 C.F.R. § 553.222(c). "In the absence of such
an agreement, the sleep time is compensable." Id. See
also Morehead v. Pearl, 763 F.Supp. 175, 176
(S.D.Miss.1990); Harrison v. Clarksville, 732 F.Supp.
804, 806 (M.D.Tenn.1989); Jacksonville Professional
Fire Fighters Ass'n, Local 2961 v. Jacksonville, 685
F.Supp. 513, 518-19 (E.D.N.C. 1987); International
Ass'n of Firefighters, Local 349 v. Rome, 682 F.Supp.
522, 529 (N.D.Ga.1988). While sleep time, therefore,
can be excluded from compensable hours of work, the
regulations require that sleep time which is interrupted
by a call to duty must be counted as hours worked, and
"[i]f the sleep time is interrupted to such an extent that
the employee cannot get a reasonable night's sleep, ...
the entire time must be counted as hours of work." 29
U.S.C. § 553.222(c). Finally, as is pertinent here, the
FLSA exempts from its overtime requirements salaried,
executive employees, 29 U.S.C. § 213(a)(1), as that term
is defined at 29 C.F.R. § 541.1.
[988 F.2d 1429] In response to Garcia, the City of
Grenada undertook to devise a new work schedule and
pay system for its fire department personnel. Whereas
fire department personnel had previously worked shifts
of 24 hours on and 48 hours off, the system proposed by
the City established a 28-day tour of duty with 25 hours
on and 47 hours off. Additionally, under the new
system, eight hours of a shift were designated as sleep
time, so that employees were no longer to be paid for
their entire shift, but rather were to be paid for 17 hours
of a 25-hour shift. The new plan also designated fire
captains as executive employees and changed them from
hourly to salaried status.
To implement the new system, James Turner, Grenada's
city manager, met with fire department personnel in
August 1985. Turner explained the system and
distributed to each employee for his signature a
document entitled "FLSA Agreement." The agreements
recited that the signing employee "underst[oo]d and
agree[d] to the changes made regarding [the Fair Labor
Standards Act]," including, inter alia, that "[s]leeping
time up to eight (8) hours will be deducted from the
hours in a tour of duty." The agreements further
provided that "interrupted sleep time will be paid[;] if
interruption is over three (3) hours, the full eight (8)
hours of sleep will be counted as hours worked." Each of
the appellants signed a FLSA Agreement. The City's
new work schedule and pay system became effective
October 4, 1985 and the first paychecks under the
system were issued October 25, 1985. Appellants
worked and were paid in accordance with this system
for nearly four years before filing suit against the City
on July 6, 1989. In their complaint, appellants alleged
that the City had illegally extracted from them waivers
of their right to compensation for sleep time by coercing
them to sign the FLSA Agreements under threat of
termination and that consequently, the FLSA
Agreements were void. And those individuals who held
the position of fire captain charged that they were not,
in fact, executive employees but rather had been
pretextually classified as such by the City to avoid
FLSA's overtime requirements. Thus, all appellants
alleged they were entitled to receive overtime
compensation for their sleep time.
ANALYSIS
I.
Though the coercion alleged by appellants, and the
implementation of the City's post-Garcia pay plan
occurred more than three years prior to their filing suit,
appellants contended that their suit was not barred by
the FLSA's three-year statute of limitations, 29 U.S.C. §
255(a), since they were not challenging the
implementation of the pay system, but rather contended
that each paycheck they received under the new pay
system constituted a continuing violation of the FLSA
and allowed them to recover for violations occurring
during the [988 F.2d 1430] limitations period. Appellees
contended, and the district court agreed, that appellants'
claim for sleep time compensation was time-barred
since appellants' claim was based on a singular, discrete
act — the City's implementation of a pay system based
on allegedly void waivers — which occurred more than
three years prior to appellants' filing suit. The court
likewise concluded that as to those employees who held
the position of fire captain at the time the new pay plan
was implemented, their claims that they were not
properly classified and treated as exempt employees
were time-barred. This court agrees, and finds that the
district court properly rejected appellants' bid to avert
application of the limitations bar on the basis of a
continuing violation theory.
The issue in a case such as this, where a claim is made
that a continuing violation has occurred so as to, in
effect, extend the time for filing suit, "is whether the
reduction in pay was a single act of discrimination under
the FLSA, hence barred by its three year statute of
limitations, or whether the reduction effected in each
subsequent paycheck constitutes a violation of the Act,
thus making the complaint timely, at least in part."
Hendrix v. Yazoo City, 911 F.2d 1102 (5th Cir.1990). As
this court explained in Hendrix, the continuing violation
theory encompasses two types of cases:
The first includes cases in which the original violation occurred
outside the statute of limitations, but is closely related to other
violations that are not time-barred. In such cases, recovery may be
had for all violations, on the theory that they are part of one,
continuing violation.
The second type of continuing violation is one in which an initial
violation, outside the statute of limitations, is repeated later; in this
case, each violation begins the limitations period anew, and
recovery may be had for at least those violations that occurred
within the period of limitations.
Hendrix, 911 F.2d at 1103-04 (footnotes omitted). In
contrast,
if the discrimination alleged is solely the result of a single violation
that occurred outside the statute of limitations, the later effect of
this act does not constitute a continuing violation of the statute.
Id. at 1104 (citing United Air Lines, Inc. v. Evans, 431
U.S. 553, 97 S.Ct. 1885, 52 L.Ed.2d 571 (1977), and
Lorance v. AT & T Technologies, 490 U.S. 900, 109
S.Ct. 2261, 104 L.Ed.2d 961 (1989)).
Appellants cite Halferty v. Pulse Drug Co., 821 F.2d 261,
modified on other grounds, 826 F.2d 2 (5th Cir.1987),
for the proposition that a challenge to a pay system
under FLSA inherently charges a continuing violation.
In Halferty, this court applied the doctrine of continuing
violations to overtime and minimum wage violations
under the FLSA, and allowed the plaintiff to recover for
overtime hours worked dating back to the beginning of
the statute of limitations period, even though the terms
of her employment were entered into outside the statute
of limitations. There, the court stated: "A cause of action
(for the violation of the FLSA) accrues at each regular
payday immediately following the work period during
which the services were rendered for which the wage
and overtime compensation is claimed." Halferty, 821
F.2d at 271 (citing Hodgson v. Behrens Drug Co., 475
F.2d 1041, 1050-51 (5th Cir.), cert. denied, 414 U.S. 822,
94 S.Ct. 121, 38 L.Ed.2d 55 (1973)). The district court
found Halferty inapposite, and resolved instead that this
court's holding in Hendrix v. Yazoo City, 911 F.2d 1102
(5th Cir.1990), was "logically applicable."
In Hendrix, this court found that a city's unilateral
reduction of the base salary of its firefighters following
Garcia, in violation of an FLSA interim
antidiscrimination measure, was a single violation of the
FLSA which triggered the running of the statute of
limitations. The court opined that while this pay
reduction was reflected in subsequent pay packets
received by the firefighters, the pay packets simply gave
continuing effect to a past discriminatory act in a facially
neutral manner and therefore did not constitute a
continuing violation. Hendrix, 911 F.2d at 1105.
Accordingly, the plaintiffs' claim was time-barred.
[988 F.2d 1431] The district court properly concluded
that Hendrix, rather than Halferty, provides the
applicable analogy. While it often is not readily apparent
whether a complaint alleges a true continuing violation
of either variety described in Hendrix or whether it
merely charges a single violation, as the district court
correctly recognized, the distinction turns on "whether
the practice at issue is part of, or a repetition of, a past
discriminatory act, in which case there is a continuing
violation, or whether it is facially neutral, simply giving
effect to prior discrimination, in which case there is no
continuing violation." Hendrix, 911 F.2d at 1104. This
distinction was noted by the Supreme Court in Lorance
v. AT & T Technologies, Inc., 490 U.S. 900, 109 S.Ct.
2261, 104 L.Ed.2d 961 (1989), where the Court held that
the adoption of a facially neutral seniority system was a
single violation of Title VII triggering the statute of
limitations, rather than a continuing violation renewed
with each paycheck. The Lorance Court explained:
With a facially neutral system the discriminatory act occurs only at
the time of adoption, for each application is non-discriminatory....
But a facially discriminatory system ... by definition discriminates
each time it is applied.
Lorance, 490 U.S. at 912 n. 5 109 S.Ct. at 2269 n. 5
(emphasis in original). The Court reasoned that
"[b]ecause the claimed invalidity of the facially
nondiscriminatory and neutrally applied ... seniority
system [was] wholly dependent on" the existence of a
discriminatory intent in the adoption of the system,
then the date of adoption governed the limitations
period. Lorance, 490 U.S. at 911, 109 S.Ct. at 2268. See
also Delaware State College v. Ricks, 449 U.S. 250, 101
S.Ct. 498, 66 L.Ed.2d 431 (1980) (where the only alleged
discrimination occurred at the time plaintiff was denied
tenure, the statute of limitations commenced at the time
of that decision, even though the effects of the denial of
tenure did not occur until later); United Air Lines, Inc.
v. Evans, 431 U.S. 553, 97 S.Ct. 1885, 52 L.Ed.2d 571
(1977) ("challenge to a neutral system may not be
predicated on the mere fact that a past event which has
no present legal significance has affected the calculation
of seniority credit, even if the past event might at one
time have justified a valid claim against the employer.")
This distinction provided the basis for this court's
refusal in Hendrix to follow Halferty, see Hendrix, 911
F.2d at 1104, and the cause for the district court's
rejection of Halferty in the case at bar. As the district
court aptly stated:
[T]he types of violations are distinguishable as those where the
employer moves from one facially valid system of pay to another
valid system of pay in an improper manner or at a prohibited time,
a single statutory violation, and those where an employer
implements a facially invalid system and continues to pay
compensation under the facially invalid system, a continuing
violation.
Applying this analysis, the district court concluded that
the City had simply "move[d] to a facially valid postFLSA
policy from the pre-FLSA facially valid policy...."
While appellants acknowledge the significance of facial
neutrality in determining whether application of a
policy will be found to constitute a continuing violation,
they contend that the district court erred in concluding
that the City's post-Garcia pay policy was facially valid.
Rather, according to appellants, the pay system which
the City implemented is invalid on its face and can be
saved only by resort to the waivers (FLSA Agreements)
since, in the absence of those waivers, sleep time
constitutes compensable hours of work. In the court's
opinion, however, the district court properly construed
the FLSA agreements or waivers as an integral part of
the City's pay policy and concluded that the policy [988
F.2d 1432] was facially valid. Under the applicable
regulation, sleep time of firefighters can be excluded if
two conditions are met: (1) a tour of duty of more than
24 hours and (2) an agreement between the employer
and employee to exclude such time. 29 C.F.R. §
553.222(c). The agreement that sleep time will not be
compensable is no less a part of the policy than is the 25-
hour tour of duty.
The sole basis for appellants' seeking to impose liability
against the City for sleep time compensation is their
claim that the City, in the course of devising the new
pay policy, coerced them, in August 1985, to relinquish
their FLSA rights under threat of termination and
thereafter, in October 1985, implemented a pay system
predicated on those waivers. That alleged act of coercion
is the event giving rise to appellants' complaint and is
patently a single violation of the FLSA. Even though the
effect of this act was reflected in appellants' subsequent
paychecks, that effect does not transform the act into a
continuing violation.
Applying the test established in Berry v. Board of
Supervisors of L.S.U., 715 F.2d 971 (5th Cir.1983), cert.
denied, 479 U.S. 868, 107 S.Ct. 232, 93 L.Ed.2d 158
(1986), for defining precisely when the act or acts of
discrimination occurred, the district court concluded,
and properly so, that there was a single violation which
took place at the time the City's post-Garcia pay plan
was activated. The most important factor under the
Berry test is the "degree of permanence:"
Does the act have the degree of permanence which should trigger
an employee's awareness of and duty to assert his or her rights, or
which should indicate to the employee that the continued existence
of the adverse consequences of the act is to be expected without
being dependent on a continuing intent to discriminate?
Berry, 715 F.2d at 981. The importance of this factor
derives from the premise underlying the continuing
violation doctrine, the equitable notion that the statute
of limitations ought not to begin to run until facts
supportive of the cause of action "`are or should be
apparent to a reasonably prudent person similarly
situated.'" Glass v. Petro-Tex Chem. Corp., 757 F.2d
1554, 1560 (5th Cir.1985) (quoting Dumas v. Town of
Mt. Vernon, 612 F.2d 974, 979 (5th Cir. 1978)).
"`The focus is on what event in fairness and logic should have
alerted the average lay person to act to protect his rights.'" Id. At the
same time, "the mere perpetuation of the effects of time-barred
discrimination does not constitute a violation ... in the absence of
independent, actionable conduct occurring within the statutory
period...." Trevino v. Celanese Corporation, 701 F.2d 397, 403 n. 7
(5th Cir.1983) (emphasis in original). See generally 2A Larson,
Employment Discrimination @ 48.54(c) (1984).
Glass, 757 F.2d at 1560. Appellants do not deny that
they understood the various facets of the City's new pay
policy. They do not claim that they failed to
comprehend the meaning or significance of the FLSA
agreements which they claim that they were coerced
into signing. And unequivocally, they were aware from
the receipt of their first paychecks that they were not
receiving compensation for sleep time. There is no
question, then, but that this event would "in fairness and
logic ... have alerted the average lay person to act to
protect his rights." Id. Their claim, therefore, having
been filed more than three years later, is time-barred.
[988 F.2d 1433] Appellants maintain that the district
court erred in failing to recognize their claim under state
law for breach of their employment contracts, which
they maintain would be governed by Mississippi's sixyear
statute of limitations for causes of action predicated
on contracts of employment. See Miss.Code Ann. § 15-
1-29. Appellants' contention in this regard is manifestly
without merit. While appellants did allege in their
complaint that they were not "at will" employees, the
complaint cannot reasonably be construed as alleging a
state law cause of action for breach of contract. That
these employees were not terminable at will was
obviously recited in the complaint to demonstrate that
the threat to terminate their employment was coercive
since they were not lawfully subject to termination for
failure to sign the FLSA Agreements. Appellants did not
purport to allege a separate claim based on their status as
other than "at will" employees. The allegation, in short,
simply formed a part of the basis for their claim that the
City violated FLSA, and therefore, the court's
conclusion that the FLSA statute of limitations operates
to bar appellants' claims relating to the City's
implementation of the new pay policy necessarily
disposes of any state law issues. See Aluminum, Brick
and Glass-workers Int'l Union Local 674 v. A.P. Green
Refractories, Inc., 895 F.2d 1053, 1054 (5th Cir.1990)
(court will borrow state limitations period only where
the federal statute provides no statute of limitations).
II.
Appellants next urge that the district court erred in
ordering them to return to the City audio tapes and
transcripts of executive sessions containing privileged
communications which the City inadvertently produced
during discovery. At a deposition during which the
City learned that appellants possessed these materials,
the City asserted the attorney client privilege and
demanded a return of the materials. Upon a request by
the parties for a ruling on the privilege issue, the
magistrate judge ordered appellants to return the
materials. In so ruling, the magistrate judge, noting the
absence of Fifth Circuit authority addressing the issue of
inadvertent disclosures of privileged materials, applied a
five-part test gleaned from Hartford Fire Insurance Co.
v. Garvey, 109 F.R.D. 323 (N.D.Cal.1985), under which
consideration is given to all of the circumstances
surrounding the disclosure, including: (1) the
reasonableness of precautions taken to prevent
disclosure; (2) the amount of time taken to remedy the
error; (3) the scope of discovery; (4) the extent of the
disclosure; and (5) the overriding issue of fairness. The
magistrate judge concluded that the City had not taken
reasonable and available precautions to protect the
materials from disclosure, that the scope of the
discovery was limited such that the City could
reasonably have discovered any privileged materials
and that the disclosure was complete since appellants
had become aware of the full contents of the tapes.
Nevertheless, the magistrate judge concluded that other
considerations outweighed those factors and favored a
finding that there had been no waiver. The City had
immediately asserted the attorney client privilege upon
learning of the disclosure and, in the magistrate [988
F.2d 1434] judge's view, considerations of fairness
counseled in favor of ordering the materials returned.
The tapes were clearly privileged and would not have
been discoverable absent a waiver and furthermore, the
disclosure of the tapes was obviously inadvertent. The
district judge affirmed the magistrate judge's ruling as
neither clearly erroneous, contrary to law nor an abuse
of discretion.
Appellants argue on appeal that the district court failed
to review the magistrate judge's ruling for "errors of
law," as is required by Rule 72(a) of the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure, under which the court must set aside or
modify orders "found to be clearly erroneous or
contrary to law." Though this court reviews a district
court's factual findings under a clearly erroneous
standard, legal conclusions are reviewed de novo.
Chance v. Rice Univ., 984 F.2d 151 (5th Cir.1993);
Palmco Corp. v. American Airlines, Inc., 983 F.2d 681
(5th Cir.1993). The first question presented, therefore,
is whether the district court applied the proper legal
analysis.
Patently, a voluntary disclosure of information which is
inconsistent with the confidential nature of the attorney
client relationship waives the privilege. See Ward v.
Succession of Freeman, 854 F.2d 780 (5th Cir.1988),
cert. denied, 490 U.S. 1065, 109 S.Ct. 2064, 104 L.Ed.2d
629 (1989); United States v. El Paso Co., 682 F.2d 530
(5th Cir.1982), cert. denied, 466 U.S. 944, 104 S.Ct.
1927, 80 L.Ed.2d 473 (1984). There is no consensus,
however, as to the effect of inadvertent disclosures of
confidential communications. A few courts hold that
where there has been a disclosure of privileged
communications to third parties, the privilege is lost,
even if the disclosure is unintentional or inadvertent.
See, e.g., In re Sealed Case, 877 F.2d 976, 980
(D.C.Cir.1989); In re Grand Jury Proceedings, 727 F.2d
1352, 1356 (4th Cir.1984). The courts subscribing to this
view place the risk of inadvertent disclosure on the
producing party, reasoning that "the amount of care
taken to ensure confidentiality to the holder of the
privilege reflects the importance of that confidentiality
to the holder of the privilege." In re Sealed Case, 877
F.2d at 980. The majority of courts, though, while
recognizing that inadvertent disclosure may result in a
waiver of the privilege, have declined to apply this
"strict responsibility" rule of waiver and have opted
instead for an approach which takes into account the
facts surrounding a particular disclosure. See, e.g.,
Transamerica Computer Co. v. International Bus. Mach.
Corp., 573 F.2d 646, 650-52 (9th Cir.1978) (privilege
waived only if privilege holder voluntarily discloses
communication); Parkway Gallery Furniture, Inc. v.
Kittinger/Pennsylvania House Group, Inc., 116 F.R.D.
46, 50-52 (M.D.N.C.1987) (limited inadvertent
disclosure will not necessarily result in waiver);
Hartford, 109 F.R.D. at 329 (inadvertent disclosure of
privileged communication may constitute waiver);
Georgetown Manor, Inc. v. Ethan Allen, Inc., 753
F.Supp. 936, 938-39 (S.D.Fla.1991) (inadvertent
production is antithesis of concept of waiver so that
mere inadvertent production by attorney does not waive
client's privilege). In our view, an analysis which
permits the court to consider the circumstances
surrounding a disclosure on a case-by-case basis is
preferable to a per se rule of waiver. This analysis serves
the purpose of the attorney client privilege, the
protection of communications which the client fully
intended would remain confidential, yet at the same
time will not relieve those claiming the privilege of the
consequences of their carelessness if the circumstances
surrounding the disclosure do not clearly demonstrate
that continued protection is warranted. Accordingly, we
conclude that the district court's decision to analyze the
issue under the Hartford test was proper. The court's
findings relating to the various factors identified in
Hartford are essentially factual in nature and therefore
are reviewed under a clearly erroneous standard. See
Peavey Co. v. M/V ANPA, 971 F.2d 1168, 1174 (5th
Cir.1992) (district court's factual findings will be deemed
clearly erroneous only if the reviewing court is "left with
a definite and firm conviction that a mistake has been
made"). Cf. Rock v. Huffco Gas & Oil Co., 922 F.2d 272,
281 (5th Cir.1991) [988 F.2d 1435] (district court's
conclusion based on weighing of relevant factors under
residual exception to hearsay rule will be reversed only
if clearly erroneous); In re Sealed Case, 877 F.2d at 980-
81 (determination of extent of waiver of privilege
depends heavily on factual context in which privilege is
asserted and will be reviewed for abuse of discretion).
And though we believe that a close question was
presented, we cannot say that the district court erred in
finding that there was no waiver under the
circumstances.
III.
Appellants maintain that the district court erred in
granting a defense motion in limine to exclude the
admission of testimony and reports of appellants'
damages expert, Dan McClemore. The district judge
excluded the expert's testimony based on his
determination that appellants had not complied with
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure Rule 26(e)(1)(B), which
requires a party to supplement interrogatory responses
with respect to "the identity of each person expected to
be called as an expert witness at trial, the subject matter
on which the person is expected to testify, and the
substance of the person's testimony."
The record reflects that appellants designated the
proposed witness, an accountant, as an expert during
discovery, and advised that his testimony would address
damages for interrupted sleep time. Approximately two
weeks prior to trial, the City moved in limine to exclude
the expert's testimony. The City objected that appellants
had not produced expert reports or source data during
discovery and complained further that, though
appellants did advise just prior to the pretrial conference
that the expert used a "reverse projection" and "scatter
plot" method of averaging to arrive at damage
calculations based on later documents and personal
interviews with the appellants and did produce to
appellees an expert report and spread sheets, the
appellants' explanation of their expert's methodology
was of only marginal assistance and the documents
produced were useless since they lacked sufficient
information to permit analysis and verification. Finally,
appellees contended that the appellants' extreme delay in
providing any substantive information concerning the
proposed testimony of the expert deprived them of the
opportunity to pursue discovery on the damages issue
before trial and thus caused them significant prejudice.
Appellants argue that the district court was precluded
from excluding the expert's testimony as a sanction for
their having failed to respond to discovery requests,
since they did provide responses to the City's expert
interrogatories and the City never moved to compel any
further response. Appellants maintain that they cannot
be sanctioned for failure to fully respond to an
interrogatory where there has been no motion to
compel. Appellants' argument proceeds from Rule 37 of
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which relates to,
inter alia, motions to compel for incomplete
interrogatory responses and failure to fully respond to
document production requests. See Broadcast Music,
Inc. v. Xanthas, Inc., 855 F.2d 233, 238 (5th Cir.1988)
("Sanctions such as estoppel may be imposed under Rule
37(b) for failure to produce documents only when the
court has entered an order compelling discovery.").
However, the applicable rule in this context is not Rule
37, relating to [988 F.2d 1436] incomplete responses, but
Rule 26(e), which defines a party's duty to supplement
expert interrogatory responses. Rule 26 imposes no
requirement, express or implied, that a motion to
compel precede a court's imposition of a sanction
(which, the Advisory Comments note, may consist of
exclusion of testimony) for failure to supplement expert
interrogatory responses. The only issue, therefore, is
whether the district court committed manifest error in
excluding the witness' testimony. See Page v. Barko
Hydraulics, 673 F.2d 134, 139 (5th Cir. 1982) ("trial
court has wide discretion to admit or exclude expert
testimony, and only if we determine that a ruling is
manifestly erroneous may we find that discretion
abused"); see also Branch-Hines v. Hebert, 939 F.2d
1311, 1319 (5th Cir.1991) ("trial court is afforded much
discretion in deciding whether to admit or deny
testimony").
This court is unable to conclude that the district court
erred in finding that appellants failed in their duty to
supplement their expert interrogatory responses.
Information claimed by the City to be critical to its
understanding of the expert's proposed testimony was
first provided nine months after the close of discovery
and only two weeks prior to trial. Moreover, contrary to
appellants' assertion, it does not appear that the expert's
proposed testimony was essential to appellants' case.
Much, if not all of the relevant testimony which could
have been elicited from this expert witness could have
been provided by appellants themselves. During a
period of time involved in this case, the City maintained
records of duty calls occurring during sleep time. Those
records, which provided the basis for the expert's
damages computation for the period of time which they
covered, were available to appellants. And, for the time
period during which no records of sleep interruptions
were maintained, appellants were in as good a position
to arrive at a damages computation as was the expert.
Based on these factors, the district court did not act
improperly in excluding the testimony.
IV.
In addition to his excluding the expert accountant's
testimony, the district judge granted a defense motion in
limine to exclude the testimony of a labor department
investigator offered by appellants. The witness,
identified as an "expert" witness, was to testify
concerning his findings following a Department of
Labor investigation, conducted prior to the institution
of the lawsuit, relating to sleep time and the exempt
status of fire captains. The district court's decision to
exclude the witness' testimony was not manifestly
erroneous.
Appellants advise that the witness would have testified
concerning his investigation as to sleep interruptions
and captains' exemptions and would have testified to his
conclusion that there were unpaid sleep interruptions
and that captains were not properly classified as exempt.
He would further have testified that the City refused a
Department of Labor request for compliance. The
appellants themselves testified to the facts comprising
their claims for relief and there has been no suggestion
that the investigator's testimony regarding factual
findings would have been other than cumulative.
Regarding the conclusions of his investigation,
appellants represented to the district judge that the
witness had only been permitted to testify by the
Department of Labor upon an assurance by appellants'
counsel that he would not "give opinions, legal or
otherwise," but would "simply outline his investigation,
what he did, who he contacted at the City, what was
communicated to those officials." Thus, the witness was
not to give testimony concerning his conclusions. In any
event, the conclusions which appellants represent the
witness would have given would have been, in the
court's view, inadmissible legal conclusions. See Owen
v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 698 F.2d 236, 240 (5th Cir.1983)
(Federal [988 F.2d 1437] Rule of Evidence 704 does not
permit expert to state legal conclusions).
V.
Appellants have raised a number of additional issues: (1)
whether the district court erred in granting a directed
verdict on the issue of whether captains were properly
classified as salaried, exempt employees; (2) whether the
district court erred in granting a directed verdict on the
issue of willfulness; and (3) whether the district court
erred in dismissing appellants' claims against city
officials in their individual capacities. These issues have
been rendered moot by this court's conclusion that the
district court properly dismissed the claims for sleep
time pay, coupled with the jury's verdict for the City on
appellants' claim for compensation for sleep interrupted
time. Accordingly, the court will not reach those issues.
The judgment of the district court is AFFIRMED.