The decision about to be made of this appeal changes
the established law of this State, one of the most recent
decisions the other way being Kaufman v. American
Youth Hostels (5 N.Y.2d 1016), where all of the
"significant contacts" were with New York State except
the mountain which plaintiff's intestate was climbing
when she met her death. The defense of immunity of a
charitable corporation under the Oregon law, where the
accident occurred, was inapplicable under the law of
New York where the defendant corporation was
organized and staffed, and plaintiff and his intestate
resided. Nevertheless the court declined to strike that
defense from the answer, based upon Oregon law.
Concerning, as it did, solely the status of the defendant
corporation, Kaufman v. American Youth Hostels
presented a stronger case for the application of New
York law than does the present. The case of Auten v.
Auten (308 N.Y. 155), involving a separation agreement
between English people and providing for the support
of a wife and children to continue to live in England,
accomplished no such revolution in the law as the
present appeal. Auten v. Auten dealt with contracts, the
agreement was held to be governed by the law of the
country where it was mainly to be performed, which
had previously been the law, and the salient expressions
"center of gravity", "grouping of contacts", and similar
catchwords were employed as a shorthand reference to
the reconciliation of such rigid concepts in the conflict
of laws as the formulae making applicable the place
where the contract was signed or where it was to be
performed — rules which themselves were occasionally
in conflict with one another. In the course of the
opinion it was stated that "even if we were not to place
our emphasis on the law of the place with the most
significant contacts, but were instead simply to apply the
rule that matters of performance and breach are
governed by the law of the place of performance, the
same result would follow" (308 N. Y., p. 163). The
decision in Auten v. Auten rationalized and rendered
more workable the existing law of contracts. The name
"grouping of contacts" was simply a label to identify the
rationalization of existing decisions on the conflict of
laws in 
[12 N.Y.2d 486]
 contract cases which were
technically inconsistent, in some instances. The
difference between the present case and Auten v. Auten
is that Auten did not materially change the law, but
sought to formulate what had previously been decided.
The present case makes substantial changes in the law of
torts. The expressions "center of gravity", "grouping of
contacts," and "significant contacts" are catchwords
which were not employed to define and are inadequate
to define a principle of law, and were neither applied to
nor are they applicable in the realm of torts.
Any idea is without foundation that cases such as the
present render more uniform the laws of torts in the
several States of the United States. Attempts to make the
law or public policy of New York State prevail over the
laws and policies of other States where citizens of New
York State are concerned are simply a form of
extraterritoriality which can be turned against us
wherever actions are brought in the courts of New York
which involve citizens of other States. This is no
substitute for uniform State laws or for obtaining
uniformity by covering the subject by Federal law.
Undoubtedly ease of travel and communication, and the
increase in interstate business have rendered more
awkward discrepancies between the laws of the States in
many respects. But this is not a condition to be cured by
introducing or extending principles of
extraterritoriality, as though we were living in the days
of the Roman or British Empire, when the concepts
were formed that the rights of a Roman or an
Englishman were so significant that they must be
enforced throughout the world even where they were
otherwise unlikely to be honored by "lesser breeds
without the law." Importing the principles of
extraterritoriality into the conflicts of laws between the
States of the United States can only make confusion
worse confounded. If extraterritoriality is to be the
criterion, what would happen, for example, in case of an
automobile accident where some of the passengers came
from or were picked up in States or countries where
causes of action against the driver were prohibited,
others where gross negligence needed to be shown,
some, perhaps, from States where contributory
negligence and others where comparative negligence
prevailed? In the majority opinion it is said that "Where
the defendant's exercise of due care in the operation of
his automobile is in issue, the jurisdiction in which the
allegedly wrongful conduct occurred 
[12 N.Y.2d 487]
will usually have a predominant, if not exclusive,
concern." This is hardly consistent with the statement in
the footnote that gross negligence would not need to be
established in an action by a passenger if the accident
occurred in a State whose statute so required. If the
status of the passenger as a New Yorker would prevent
the operation of a statute in a sister State or neighboring
country which granted immunity to the driver in suits
by passengers, it is said that it would also prevent the
operation of a statute which instead of granting
immunity permits recovery only in case of gross
negligence. There are passenger statutes or common-
law decisions requiring gross negligence or its
substantial equivalent to be shown in 29 States. One
wonders what would happen if contributory negligence
were eliminated as a defense by statute in another
jurisdiction? Or if comparative negligence were
established as the rule in the other State?
In my view there is no overriding consideration of
public policy which justifies or directs this change in the
established rule or renders necessary or advisable the
confusion which such a change will introduce.
The judgment dismissing the complaint should be
affirmed.
Judgment reversed, with costs in all courts, and matter
remitted to Special Term for further proceedings in
accordance with the opinion herein.