Manuel A. Iglesias appeals from the district court's grant
of summary judgment on his discrimination and
contract claims against his former employer, Mutual
Life Insurance Company of New York ("MONY").
MONY appeals from the court's dismissal of its
counterclaim for restitution of money that Iglesias
obtained by submitting admittedly overstated expense
reports. We affirm the judgment for MONY against
Iglesias. We vacate the order dismissing MONY's
counterclaim and remand the counterclaim with
directions to dismiss the counterclaim without prejudice
for want of jurisdiction.
I. Iglesias's Claims.
We review a grant of summary judgment de novo,
taking the facts in the light most favorable to the nonmoving
party. See One Nat'l Bank v. Antonellis, 80 F.3d
606, 608 (1st Cir.1996). After considering the record,
briefs, and oral arguments, we affirm the dismissal of
Iglesias's discrimination and contract claims
substantially for the reasons stated in the district court's
memoranda and orders. We add only the following
short discussion.
Regarding Iglesias's discrimination claims,1 Iglesias
received clear and unequivocal notice that he was
terminated as MONY's San Juan Agency Manager on
February 9, 1989, at the latest. On that date, MONY sent
him a letter informing him that he would no longer be
authorized to act as Agency Manager. In the context of
the parties' prior discussions regarding Iglesias's
retirement, the February 1989 letter put Iglesias on
notice that he had been fired.2 Iglesias did not file
administrative charges with the Anti-Discrimination
Division of the Puerto Rico Department of Labor until
August 28, 1990, and his initial complaint in federal
court was not filed until April 17, 1991. Iglesias's [156
F.3d 240] action for discrimination was, therefore,
barred by the applicable statutes of limitations. See 42
U.S.C. § 2000e-5(e) (establishing a 300-day limitation
period for actions under Title VII that were first
presented to an administrative agency); 29 U.S.C. §
626(d)(2) (setting a 300-day limitation period for actions
under the ADEA that were first brought before a state
authority); Olmo v. Young & Rubicam, 110 D.P.R. 740,
745, 1981 WL 176523 (P.R.1981) (applying a one year
limitation period to claims brought under Law 100).
The Puerto Rico Supreme Court's decision in Vélez
Rodríguez v. Pueblo Int'l, Inc., 94 JTS 37 (P.R. March
18, 1994) does not apply to Iglesias's claims for the
reasons stated in the district court's memorandum.
Regarding Iglesias's contract claims, MONY's
employment contract with Iglesias did not limit
MONY's ability to withdraw products from the Puerto
Rico market. Iglesias argues that the provision in the
contract authorizing him to "solicit applications for
insurance in MONY of the types of insurance which
MONY is issuing" created a vested right that prevented
MONY from ever altering its policy offerings in Puerto
Rico. We recognize that "when the facts support
plausible but conflicting inferences on a pivotal issue in
the case, the judge may not choose between those
inferences at the summary judgment stage." Coyne v.
Taber Partners I, 53 F.3d 454, 460 (1st Cir.1995). We
need not indulge a nonmoving party's inferences,
however, if they do not "flow rationally from the
underlying facts." Rubinovitz v. Rogato, 60 F.3d 906,
911 (1st Cir. 1995).
No reasonable jury could agree with Iglesias's reading of
his contract. The plain language of the provision
purports only to authorize Iglesias to sell MONY's
product line, it does not guarantee stability of that line.
MONY is a national company that deals with many
agents in diverse geographic areas. To interpret this
contract provision so as to grant each of those agents the
power to control which products MONY offers within
that particular agent's jurisdiction would give Iglesias
and other agents the power to veto policy decisions
made by MONY's upper management at the company's
national headquarters. This would flip the employment
relationship between MONY and its agents on its head.
Further, each of Iglesias's contracts contained clauses in
which MONY reserved the right to change the contract.
The district court's grant of summary judgment was
entirely appropriate.
II. MONY's Counterclaim.
MONY reimbursed Iglesias for expenses that he
incurred as a result of his professional activities. To
supplement his income, Iglesias admits that he "padded"
his expense reimbursement requests from 1981 to 1988.
MONY first learned of Iglesias's practice of overstating
his expenses in 1987. At that time, MONY took no legal
action against Iglesias. Instead, after notifying him that
his conduct conflicted with company policy, MONY
requested that he submit accurate reports in the future.
Subsequently, Iglesias brought the present action against
MONY for discrimination and breach of contract. On
November 7, 1991, in the course of a deposition, Iglesias
admitted that he had continued submitting exaggerated
expense reports even after MONY's 1987 warning.
MONY tried to use the information obtained at the
1991 deposition in three ways. First, MONY questioned
Iglesias about his expense reports during trial in an
effort to impeach his credibility. Second, MONY
attempted to raise the falsified expense requests as an
affirmative defense to Iglesias's discrimination claims,
arguing that they provided MONY with a valid nondiscriminatory
reason to terminate Iglesias. The court
did not allow MONY to pursue this strategy because
MONY learned of these improprieties only after it had
terminated Iglesias.
Third, and more importantly for our purposes, MONY
sought leave to amend its answer to add a counterclaim
for restitution. On March 17, 1992, the magistrate judge
granted MONY's request. For four years, the parties
conducted discovery on the counterclaim. On August 6,
1996, Iglesias moved for dismissal of MONY's
counterclaim arguing, inter alia, that it was barred by
laches. On August 14, 1996, the district court dismissed
[156 F.3d 241] the counterclaim as untimely. MONY
now appeals from that dismissal.
Although neither of the parties has raised the issue, we
have an obligation to inquire into our subject matter
jurisdiction over MONY's counterclaim. See Clark v.
Paul Gray, Inc., 306 U.S. 583, 588, 59 S.Ct. 744, 83 L.Ed.
1001 (1939) (holding that although district court's
jurisdiction had not been challenged, Court had duty to
raise question of whether jurisdictional amount was
involved). See also White v. Gittens, 121 F.3d 803, 806
(1st Cir.1997). Federal courts are courts of limited
jurisdiction; a court may not address the merits until
"after ... the court has assumed jurisdiction over the
controversy." Bell v. Hood, 327 U.S. 678, 681, 66 S.Ct.
773, 90 L.Ed. 939 (1946); see also Steel Co. v. Citizens
for a Better Environment, ___ U.S. ___, ___, 118 S.Ct.
1003, 1012, 140 L.Ed.2d 210 (1998) (stating that
deciding the merits before confirming jurisdiction
"carries the courts beyond the bounds of authorized
judicial action and thus offends fundamental principles
of separation of powers"). Since MONY's counterclaim
sounds in state law, a federal court may not hear it
unless it falls within the ambit of supplemental
jurisdiction or is supported by an independent
jurisdictional basis. See Toste Farm Corp. v. Hadbury,
Inc., 70 F.3d 640, 646 (1st Cir.1995) (noting that a
federal court has jurisdiction over a counterclaim only if
it resides within the court's supplemental jurisdiction or
is supported by an independent jurisdictional basis).
The parties appear to have assumed that MONY's
counterclaim was within the court's supplemental
jurisdiction. When considering supplemental
jurisdiction, the nature of the counterclaim is crucial.
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 13 describes two types
of counterclaims: compulsory and permissive. A
compulsory counterclaim is one that "arises out of the
transaction or occurrence that is the subject matter of
the opposing party's claim." Fed.R.Civ.P. 13(a). All
counterclaims that are not compulsory are permissive.
See Fed.R.Civ.P. 13(b). Only compulsory counterclaims
can rely upon supplemental jurisdiction; permissive
counterclaims require their own jurisdictional basis.
The supplemental jurisdiction statute provides: "[I]n
any civil action of which the district courts have original
jurisdiction, the district courts shall have supplemental
jurisdiction over all other claims that are so related to
claims in the action within such original jurisdiction
that they form part of the same case or controversy
under Article III of the United States Constitution." 28
U.S.C. § 1367(a). Section 1367 incorporates the
common law doctrines of pendent and ancillary
jurisdiction. See Penobscot Indian Nation v. Key Bank,
112 F.3d 538, 563 (1st Cir.1997), cert. denied, ___ U.S.
___, 118 S.Ct. 297, 139 L.Ed.2d 229 (1997). Federal
courts have ancillary jurisdiction over compulsory
counterclaims. See McCaffrey v. Rex Motor Transp.,
Inc., 672 F.2d 246, 248 (1st Cir.1982); 6 Charles Alan
Wright, Arthur R, Miller & Mary Kay Kane, Federal
Practice & Procedure § 1414, at 99 (2d ed.1990).
Permissive counterclaims, however, do not fall within
ancillary jurisdiction and therefore may not be heard in
federal court unless supported by an independent basis
of jurisdiction. See McCaffrey, 672 F.2d at 248; Wright,
Miller & Kane, § 1422, at 169-70.
There are at least four tests to determine whether a
counterclaim is compulsory or permissive:
1) Are the issues of fact and law raised by the claim and
counterclaim largely the same?
2) Would res judicata bar a subsequent suit on defendant's claim
absent the compulsory counterclaim rule?
3) Will substantially the same evidence support or refute plaintiff's
claim as well as defendant's counterclaim?
4) Is there any logical relation between the claim and the
counterclaim?
McCaffrey, 672 F.2d at 248 (quoting 6 Wright, Miller &
Kane, supra, § 1410, at 42 [currently 52-57]) (internal
quotation marks omitted). Of these tests, only the fourth
— the "logical relation" test — could possibly encompass
MONY's counterclaim. In McCaffrey, we adopted the
Fifth Circuit's treatment of the logical relation test.
Under this [156 F.3d 242] approach, a claim qualifies as
compulsory only if:
it arises out of the same aggregate of operative facts as the original
claim in two senses: (1) that the same aggregate of operative facts
serves as the basis of both claims; or (2) that the aggregate core of
facts upon which the original claim rests activates additional legal
rights in a party defendant that would otherwise remain dormant.
McCaffrey, 672 F.2d at 249 (quoting Revere Copper &
Brass, Inc. v. Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 426 F.2d 709, 715
(5th Cir.1970)).
Applying this standard, MONY's counterclaim is
permissive. First, the aggregate of operative facts giving
rise to Iglesias's claims is entirely different from the facts
supporting MONY's counterclaim. Iglesias alleges that
MONY removed its disability insurance product from
the Puerto Rico market in 1981 for discriminatory
reasons. That change in policy, he claims, led to his
eventual termination, which therefore was also
discriminatory. The evidence relevant to these claims
includes the terms of Iglesias's employment contract and
documentary, testimonial or other evidence concerning
MONY's actions in Puerto Rico. By contrast, MONY's
counterclaim is for restitution of monies that Iglesias
wrongfully obtained from the company over the period
from 1981 to 1988. The facts supporting the restitution
claim include Iglesias's records and expense vouchers for
travel and meals, his admissions during deposition, and
documentary, testimonial or other evidence regarding
MONY's reimbursement policies. Notwithstanding both
claims arose during the same time period, they therefore
rest on different sets of supporting facts.
Second, MONY's ability to recover restitution does not
depend on the success or failure of Iglesias's claims.
Iglesias has admitted that he overbilled his expenses to
enhance his compensation. Although MONY discovered
Iglesias's false reimbursement requests for 1988 in a
deposition that was part of the present action, Iglesias's
claims did not "activate" otherwise dormant claims.
MONY could have sought reimbursement for its
payments based on Iglesias's false expense reports prior
to 1988 at any point. Even MONY's claim relating to
1988 expenses is not tied to the merits of the
discrimination and contract claims. In other words,
MONY's counterclaim bears no logical relation to the
claims in the main action.
We conclude that MONY's counterclaim is permissive
rather than compulsory, and is not supported by federal
supplemental jurisdiction. We look, therefore, to
whether it rests on an independent federal jurisdictional
basis.
The only possible jurisdictional basis would be diversity
of citizenship. While Iglesias and MONY are citizens of
different states, MONY did not allege that its claim
exceeded any specified sum, nor is its amount
ascertainable from the record. See 28 U.S.C. § 1332(a)
(1993) (limiting diversity jurisdiction to claims that
exceed a certain amount-in-controversy). At the time
that MONY asserted its counterclaim, the amount-incontroversy
required was in excess of $50,000, exclusive
of interest and costs.3 The burden of alleging
jurisdiction is on the party asserting the claim. See
Viqueira v. First Bank, 140 F.3d 12, 16 (1st Cir.1998)
(stating that "the proponent ... must carry the burden of
demonstrating the existence of federal jurisdiction").
Although "the sum claimed by the [proponent] controls
if the claim is apparently made in good faith," Saint Paul
Mercury Indem. Co. v. Red Cab Co., 303 U.S. 283, 288,
58 S.Ct. 586, 82 L.Ed. 845 (1938) (footnote omitted),
MONY, as noted, has failed to allege that its
counterclaim exceeds the required amount-incontroversy
nor is there evidence in the record from
which its value can reliably be determined as exceeding
that amount. MONY stated merely that it was:
in the process of reviewing each and everyone [sic] of the expense
reports submitted by Mr. Iglesias to determine what was the scope
of this practice by Mr. Iglesias and the approximate amount of
funds wrongfully taken by Mr. Iglesias from Mutual [156 F.3d 243]
through the scheme of false expense reports acknowledged by the
plaintiff.
Later, MONY submitted a more detailed accounting of
specific instances in which Iglesias alleged excessive or
false mileage, but did not state the value of the wrongful
claims. MONY noted that Iglesias had charged
$48,500.87 in meal expenses between 1981 and 1988,
but it did not indicate what portion of these claims was
false or overstated.
In these circumstances — lacking MONY's allegation
that the counterclaim meets the jurisdictional amount,
and lacking facts of record indicative that this is so — we
must conclude that the district court was without
jurisdiction to proceed. We, therefore, remand the
counterclaim with directions that it be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction. See Fed.R.Civ.P.
12(h)(3)("Whenever it appears by suggestion of the
parties or otherwise that the court lacks jurisdiction of
the subject matter, the court shall dismiss the action.").
See also United Food & Com. Workers Union v.
CenterMark Properties Meriden Square, Inc., 30 F.3d
298, 306 (2d Cir.1994) (addressing for first time on
appeal whether district court lacked subject matter
jurisdiction and remanding for determination of
whether amount in controversy requirement had been
met).
We recognize that Iglesias never pointed out below the
absence of a proper amount-in-controversy allegation,
nor was the subject raised by anyone. Had it been raised,
MONY might have been able to remedy the deficiency
by amendment if it believed in good faith that its
counterclaim exceeded the jurisdictional minimum. In
these circumstances, the dismissal we now order shall be
without prejudice to MONY's right, if it can do so in
good faith, to amend the counterclaim within such time
as the district court allows so as to allege a supportably
proper jurisdictional amount.4 If MONY can do so, the
district court may lift the jurisdictional bar. Cf. United
Food, 30 F.3d at 306. If that occurs, the court will be
faced with whether to reinstate its previous dismissal
with prejudice for untimeliness. We comment briefly.
Because jurisdiction over the counterclaim has not been
established, we are without authority to rule whether
the district court's dismissal for untimeliness was
proper. Cf. Steel Co., ___ U.S. at ___, 118 S.Ct. at 1012.
The issue was, however, presented in this appeal and we
believe it would be helpful if we were to state our initial
impressions, recognizing their present non-binding
character. MONY brought its counterclaim only four
months after Iglesias's November 7, 1991 deposition
revealing for the first time that he had continued to
falsify his expenses even after similar improprieties were
noted in 1987. In all the circumstances, it is not readily
apparent why MONY should be thought tardy in
bringing the counterclaim when it did.
Iglesias argues that the counterclaim is barred by laches.
The equitable doctrine of laches allows a court to
dismiss a claim "where a party's delay in bringing suit
was (1) unreasonable, and (2) resulted in prejudice to the
opposing party." K-Mart Corp. v. Oriental Plaza, Inc.,
875 F.2d 907, 911 (1st Cir.1989). Even if we were to find
unreasonable delay within the period between 1987,
when MONY first learned that Iglesias had been
padding expenses, and 1992, when, after having warned
Iglesias earlier, MONY asserted its counterclaim based
on the subsequent defalcations, we fail to see how any of
that delay prejudiced Iglesias. Indeed, such prejudice as
there was appears to have worked the other way. The
magistrate judge had granted permission to MONY to
assert its counterclaim, and the parties thereafter
conducted four years of discovery. MONY sifted
through receipts for meals and business trips in an effort
to reveal false claims. The court's dismissal after four
years of discovery had been allowed seems to work a
hardship on MONY. Given these equities, we would
have serious questions as to the strength of Iglesias's
laches argument.
The judgment for MONY against Iglesias is affirmed.
The order dismissing the counterclaim [156 F.3d 244]
for untimeliness is vacated and the counterclaim
remanded with directions to dismiss the counterclaim
without prejudice for want of jurisdiction. Costs
awarded to MONY on the appeal from the district
court's grant of summary judgment; each party to bear
its own costs on the appeal from the dismissal of the
counterclaim.