At the close of the argument, a point was suggested, of
such vital importance, as to induce the Court to request
that it might be particularly spoken to. That point is, the
right of the Bank to sue in the Courts of the United
States. It has been argued, and ought to be disposed of,
before we proceed to the actual exercise of jurisdiction,
by deciding on the rights of the parties.
[22 U.S. 817] The appellants contest the jurisdiction of
the Court on two grounds:
1st. That the act of Congress has not given it.
2d. That, under the constitution, Congress cannot give
it.
1. The first part of the objection depends entirely on the
language of the act. The words are, that the Bank shall
be "made able and capable in law," "to sue and be sued,
plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered,
defend and be defended, in all State Courts having
competent jurisdiction, and in any Circuit Court of the
United States."
These words seem to the Court to admit of but one
interpretation. They cannot be made plainer by
explanation. They give, expressly, the right "to sue and
be sued," "in every Circuit Court of the United States,"
and it would be difficult to substitute other terms which
would be more direct and appropriate for the purpose.
The argument of the appellants is founded on the
opinion of this Court, in The Bank of the United States
v. Deveaux, (5 Cranch, 85.) In that case it was decided,
that the former Bank of the United States was not
enabled, by the act which incorporated it, to sue in the
federal Courts. The words of the 3d section of that act
are, that the Bank may "sue and be sued," &c. "in Courts
of record, or any other place whatsoever." The Court
was of opinion, that these general words, which are
usual in all acts of incorporation, gave only a general
capacity to sue, not a particular privilege to sue in the
[22 U.S. 818] Courts of the United States; and this
opinion was strengthened by the circumstance that the
9th rule of the 7th section of the same act, subjects the
directors, in case of excess in contracting debt, to be
sued in their private capacity, "in any Court of record of
the United States, or either of them." The express grant
of jurisdiction to the federal Courts, in this case, was
considered as having some influence on the
construction of the general words of the 3d section,
which does not mention those Courts. Whether this
decision be right or wrong, it amounts only to a
declaration, that a general capacity in the Bank to sue,
without mentioning the Courts of the Union, may not
give a right to sue in those Courts. To infer from this,
that words expressly conferring a right to sue in those
Courts, do not give the right, is surely a conclusion
which the premises do not warrant.
The act of incorporation, then, confers jurisdiction on
the Circuit Courts of the United States, if Congress can
confer it.
2. We will now consider the constitutionality of the
clause in the act of incorporation, which authorizes the
Bank to sue in the federal Courts.
In support of this clause, it is said, that the legislative,
executive, and judicial powers, of every well constructed
government, are co-extensive with each other; that is,
they are potentially co-extensive. The executive
department may constitutionally execute every law
which the Legislature may constitutionally make, and
the judicial department may receive from the Legislature
the power of construing every such law. All
governments [22 U.S. 819] which are not extremely
defective in their organization, must possess, within
themselves, the means of expounding, as well as
enforcing, their own laws. If we examine the
constitution of the United States, we find that its
framers kept this great political principle in view. The
2d article vests the whole executive power in the
President; and the 3d article declares, "that the judicial
power shall extend to all cases in law and equity arising
under this constitution, the laws of the United States,
and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
authority."
This clause enables the judicial department to receive
jurisdiction to the full extent of the constitution, laws,
and treaties of the United States, when any question
respecting them shall assume such a form that the
judicial power is capable of acting on it. That power is
capable of acting only when the subject is submitted to it
by a party who asserts his rights in the form prescribed
by law. It then becomes a case, and the constitution
declares, that the judicial power shall extend to all cases
arising under the constitution, laws, and treaties of the
United States.
The suit of The Bank of the United States v. Osborn and
others, is a case, and the question is, whether it arises
under a law of the United States?
The appellants contend, that it does not, because several
questions may arise in it, which depend on the general
principles of the law, not on any act of Congress.
If this were sufficient to withdraw a case from [22 U.S.
820] the jurisdiction of the federal Courts, almost every
case, although involving the construction of a law,
would be withdrawn; and a clause in the constitution,
relating to a subject of vital importance to the
government, and expressed in the most comprehensive
terms, would be construed to mean almost nothing.
There is scarcely any case, every part of which depends
on the constitution, laws, or treaties of the United
States. The questions, whether the fact alleged as the
foundation of the action, be real or fictitious; whether
the conduct of the plaintiff has been such as to entitle
him to maintain his action; whether his right is barred;
whether he has received satisfaction, or has in any
manner released his claims, are questions, some or all of
which may occur in almost every case; and if their
existence be sufficient to arrest the jurisdiction of the
Court, words which seem intended to be as extensive as
the constitution, laws, and treaties of the Union, which
seem designed to give the Courts of the government the
construction of all its acts, so far as they affect the rights
of individuals, would be reduced to almost nothing.
In those cases in which original jurisdiction is given to
the Supreme Court, the judicial power of the United
States cannot be exercised in its appellate form. In every
other case, the power is to be exercised in its original or
appellate form, or both, as the wisdom of Congress may
direct. With the exception of these cases, in which
original jurisdiction is given to this Court, there is none
to which the judicial power extends, from which the
original jurisdiction of the inferior Courts is excluded
[22 U.S. 821] by the constitution. Original jurisdiction,
so far as the constitution gives a rule, is co-extensive
with the judicial power. We find, in the constitution, no
prohibition to its exercise, in every case in which the
judicial power can be exercised. It would be a very bold
construction to say, that this power could be applied in
its appellate form only, to the most important class of
cases to which it is applicable.
The constitution establishes the Supreme Court, and
defines its jurisdiction. It enumerates cases in which its
jurisdiction is original and exclusive; and then defines
that which is appellate, but does not insinuate, that in
any such case, the power cannot be exercised in its
original form by Courts of original jurisdiction. It is not
insinuated, that the judicial power, in cases depending
on the character of the cause, cannot be exercised in the
first instance, in the Courts of the Union, but must first
be exercised in the tribunals of the State; tribunals over
which the government of the Union has no adequate
control, and which may be closed to any claim asserted
under a law of the United States.
We perceive, then, no ground on which the proposition
can be maintained, that Congress is incapable of giving
the Circuit Courts original jurisdiction, in any case to
which the appellate jurisdiction extends.
We ask, then, if it can be sufficient to exclude this
jurisdiction, that the case involves questions depending
on general principles? A cause may depend on several
questions of fact and law. Some [22 U.S. 822] of these
may depend on the construction of a law of the United
States; others on principles unconnected with that law.
If it be a sufficient foundation for jurisdiction, that the
title or right set up by the party, may be defeated by one
construction of the constitution or law of the United
States, and sustained by the opposite construction,
provided the facts necessary to support the action be
made out, then all the other questions must be decided
as incidental to this, which gives that jurisdiction. Those
other questions cannot arrest the proceedings. Under
this construction, the judicial power of the Union
extends effectively and beneficially to that most
important class of cases, which depend on the character
of the cause. On the opposite construction, the judicial
power never can be extended to a whole case, as
expressed by the constitution, but to those parts of cases
only which present the particular question involving the
construction of the constitution or the law. We say it
never can be extended to the whole case, because, if the
circumstance that other points are involved in it, shall
disable Congress from authorizing the Courts of the
Union to take jurisdiction of the original cause, it
equally disables Congress from authorizing those Courts
to take jurisdiction of the whole cause, on an appeal, and
thus will be restricted to a single question in that cause;
and words obviously intended to secure to those who
claim rights under the constitution, laws, or treaties of
the United States, a trial in the federal Courts, will be
restricted to the insecure remedy of an appeal upon an
insulated point, after it has [22 U.S. 823] received that
shape which may be given to it by another tribunal, into
which he is forced against his will.
We think, then, that when a question to which the
judicial power of the Union is extended by the
constitution, forms an ingredient of the original cause, it
is in the power of Congress to give the Circuit Courts
jurisdiction of that cause, although other questions of
fact or of law may be involved in it.
The case of the Bank is, we think, a very strong case of
this description. The charter of incorporation not only
creates it, but gives it every faculty which it possesses.
The power to acquire rights of any description, to
transact business of any description, to make contracts
of any description, to sue on those contracts, is given
and measured by its charter, and that charter is a law of
the United States. This being can acquire no right, make
no contract, bring no suit, which is not authorized by a
law of the United States. It is not only itself the mere
creature of a law, but all its actions and all its rights are
dependant on the same law. Can a being, thus
constituted, have a case which does not arise literally, as
well as substantially, under the law?
Take the case of a contract, which is put as the strongest
against the Bank.
When a Bank sues, the first question which presents
itself, and which lies at the foundation of the cause, is,
has this legal entity a right to sue? Has it a right to come,
not into this Court particularly, but into any Court?
This depends on a [22 U.S. 824] law of the United States.
The next question is, has this being a right to make this
particular contract? If this question be decided in the
negative, the cause is determined against the plaintiff;
and this question, too, depends entirely on a law of the
United States. These are important questions, and they
exist in every possible case. The right to sue, if decided
once, is decided for ever; but the power of Congress was
exercised antecedently to the first decision on that right,
and if it was constitutional then, it cannot cease to be so,
because the particular question is decided. It may be
revived at the will of the party, and most probably
would be renewed, were the tribunal to be changed. But
the question respecting the right to make a particular
contract, or to acquire a particular property, or to sue on
account of a particular injury, belongs to every
particular case, and may be renewed in every case. The
question forms an original ingredient in every cause.
Whether it be in fact relied on or not, in the defence, it
is still a part of the cause, and may be relied on. The
right of the plaintiff to sue, cannot depend on the
defence which the defendant may choose to set up. His
right to sue is anterior to that defence, and must depend
on the state of things when the action is brought. The
questions which the case involves, then, must determine
its character, whether those questions be made in the
cause or not.
The appellants say, that the case arises on the contract;
but the validity of the contract depends on a law of the
United States, and the plaintiff is [22 U.S. 825]
compelled, in every case, to show its validity. The case
arises emphatically under the law. The act of Congress is
its foundation. The contract could never have been
made, but under the authority of that act. The act itself
is the first ingredient in the case, is its origin, is that
from which every other part arises. That other questions
may also arise, as the execution of the contract, or its
performance, cannot change the case, or give it any
other origin than the charter of incorporation. The
action still originates in, and is sustained by, that
charter.
The clause giving the Bank a right to sue in the Circuit
Courts of the United States, stands on the same
principle with the acts authorizing officers of the United
States who sue in their own names, to sue in the Courts
of the United States. The Postmaster General, for
example, cannot sue under that part of the constitution
which gives jurisdiction to the federal Courts, in
consequence of the character of the party, nor is he
authorized to sue by the Judiciary Act. He comes into
the Courts of the Union under the authority of an act of
Congress, the constitutionality of which can only be
sustained by the admission that his suit is a case arising
under a law of the United States. If it be said, that it is
such a case, because a law of the United States authorizes
the contract, and authorizes the suit, the same reasons
exist with respect to a suit brought by the Bank. That,
too, is such a case; because that suit, too, is itself
authorized, and is brought on a contract authorized by a
law of the United States. It depends absolutely [22 U.S.
826] on that law, and cannot exist a moment without its
authority.
If it be said, that a suit brought by the Bank may depend
in fact altogether on questions unconnected with any
law of the United States, it is equally true, with respect
to suits brought by the Postmaster General. The plea in
bar may be payment, if the suit be brought on a bond, or
non-assumpsit, if it be brought on an open account, and
no other question may arise than what respects the
complete discharge of the demand. Yet the
constitutionality of the act authorizing the Postmaster
General to sue in the Courts of the United States, has
never been drawn into question. It is sustained singly by
an act of Congress, standing on that construction of the
constitution which asserts the right of the Legislature to
give original jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts, in cases
arising under a law of the United States.
The clause in the patent law, authorizing suits in the
Circuit Courts, stands, we think, on the same principle.
Such a suit is a case arising under a law of the United
States. Yet the defendant may not, at the trial, question
the validity of the patent, or make any point which
requires the construction of an act of Congress. He may
rest his defence exclusively on the fact, that he has not
violated the right of the plaintiff. That this fact becomes
the sole question made in the cause, cannot oust the
jurisdiction of the Court, or establish the position, that
the case does not arise under a law of the United States.
It is said, that a clear distinction exists between [22 U.S.
827] the party and the cause; that the party may
originate under a law with which the cause has no
connexion; and that Congress may, with the same
propriety, give a naturalized citizen, who is the mere
creature of a law, a right to sue in the Courts of the
United States, as give that right to the Bank.
This distinction is not denied; and, if the act of Congress
was a simple act of incorporation, and contained
nothing more, it might be entitled to great
consideration. But the act does not stop with
incorporating the Bank. It proceeds to bestow upon the
being it has made, all the faculties and capacities which
that being possesses. Every act of the Bank grows out of
this law, and is tested by it. To use the language of the
constitution, every act of the Bank arises out of this law.
A naturalized citizen is indeed made a citizen under an
act of Congress, but the act does not proceed to give, to
regulate, or to prescribe his capacities. He becomes a
member of the society, possessing all the rights of a
native citizen, and standing, in the view of the
constitution, on the footing of a native. The
constitution does not authorize Congress to enlarge or
abridge those rights. The simple power of the national
Legislature, is to prescribe a uniform rule of
naturalization, and the exercise of this power exhausts
it, so far as respects the individual. The constitution
then takes him up, and, among other rights, extends to
him the capacity of suing in the Courts of the United
States, precisely under the same circumstances under
which a native might sue. He is [22 U.S. 828]
distinguishable in nothing from a native citizen, except
so far as the constitution makes the distinction. The law
makes none.
There is, then, no resemblance between the act
incorporating the Bank, and the general naturalization
law.
Upon the best consideration we have been able to
bestow on this subject, we are of opinion, that the clause
in the act of incorporation, enabling the Bank to sue in
the Courts of the United States, is consistent with the
constitution, and to be obeyed in all Courts.
We will now proceed to consider the merits of the
cause.
The appellants contend, that the decree of the Circuit
Court is erroneous —
1. Because no authority is shown in the record, from the
Bank, authorizing the institution or prosecution of the
suit.
2. Because, as against the defendant, Sullivan, there are
neither proofs nor admissions, sufficient to sustain the
decree.
3. Because, upon equitable principles, the case made in
the bill, does not warrant a decree against either Osborn
or Harper, for the amount of coin and notes in the bill
specified to have passed through their hands.
4. Because, the defendants are decreed to pay interest
upon the coin, when it was not in the power of Osborn
or Harper, and was stayed in the hands of Sullivan by
injunction.
5. Because, the case made in the bill does not [22 U.S.
829] warrant the interference of a Court of Chancery, by
injunction.
6. Because, if any case is made in the bill proper for the
interference of a Court of Chancery, it is against the
State of Ohio, in which case the Circuit Court could not
exercise jurisdiction.
7. Because, the decree assumes that the Bank of the
United States is not subject to the taxing power of the
State of Ohio, and decides that the law of Ohio, the
execution of which is enjoined, is unconstitutional.
These points will be considered in the order in which
they are made.
1. It is admitted that a corporation can only appear by
attorney, and it is also admitted, that the attorney must
receive the authority of the corporation to enable him to
represent it. It is not admitted that this authority must
be under seal. On the contrary, the principle decided in
the cases of the Bank of Columbia v. Patterson, &c. is
supposed to apply to this case, and to show that the seal
may be dispensed with. It is, however, unnecessary to
pursue this inquiry, since the real question is, whether
the non-appearance of the power in the record be error,
not whether the power was insufficient in itself.
Natural persons may appear in Court, either by
themselves, or by their attorney. But no man has a right
to appear as the attorney of another, without the
authority of that other. In ordinary cases, the authority
must be produced, because there is, in the nature of
things, no prima facie evidence that one man is in fact
the attorney of another. [22 U.S. 830] The case of an
attorney at law, an attorney for the purpose of
representing another in Court, and prosecuting or
defending a suit in his name, is somewhat different. The
power must indeed exist, but its production has not
been considered as indispensable. Certain gentlemen,
first licensed by government, are admitted by order of
Court, to stand at the bar, with a general capacity to
represent all the suitors in the Court. The appearance of
any one of these gentlemen in a cause, has always been
received as evidence of his authority; and no additional
evidence, so far as we are informed, has ever been
required. This practice, we believe, has existed from the
first establishment of our Courts, and no departure from
it has been made in those of any State, or of the Union.
The argument supposes some distinction, in this
particular, between a natural person and a corporation;
but the Court can perceive no reason for this
distinction. A corporation, it is true, can appear only by
attorney, while a natural person may appear for himself.
But when he waives this privilege, and elects to appear
by attorney, no reason is perceived why the same
evidence should not be required, that the individual
professing to represent him has authority to do so,
which would be required if he were incapable of
appearing in person. The universal and familiar practice,
then, of permitting gentlemen of the profession to
appear without producing a warrant of attorney, forms
a rule, which is as applicable in reason to their
appearance for a corporation, as for a natural person.
Were it even otherwise, the practice is [22 U.S. 831] as
uniform and as ancient, with regard to corporations, as
to natural persons. No case has ever occurred, so far as
we are informed, in which the production of a warrant
of attorney has been supposed a necessary preliminary
to the appearance of a corporation, either as plaintiff or
defendant, by a gentleman admitted to the bar of the
Court. The usage, then, is as full authority for the case of
a corporation, as of an individual. If this usage ought to
be altered, it should be a rule to operate prospectively,
not by the reversal of a decree pronounced in
conformity with the general course of the Court, in a
case in which no doubt of the legality of the appearance
had ever been suggested.
In the statutes of jeofails and amendment, which respect
this subject, the non-appearance of a warrant of
attorney in the record, has generally been treated as
matter of form; and the 32d section of the Judiciary Act
may very well be construed to comprehend this formal
defect in its general terms, in a case of law. No reason is
perceived why the Courts of Chancery should be more
rigid in exacting the exhibition of a warrant of attorney
than a Court of laws and, since the practice has, in fact,
been the same in both Courts, an appellate Court ought,
we think, to be governed in both by the same rule.
2. The second point is one on which the productiveness
of any decree in favour of the plaintiffs most probably
depends; for, if the claim be not satisfied with the money
found in the possession of Sullivan, it is, at best,
uncertain whether [22 U.S. 832] a fund, out of which it
can be satisfied, is to be found elsewhere.
In inquiring whether the proofs or admissions in the
cause be sufficient to charge Sullivan, the Court will
look into the answer of Currie, as well as into that of
Sullivan. In objection to this course, it is said, that the
answer of one defendant cannot be read against another.
This is generally, but not universally, true. Where one
defendant succeeds to another, so that the right of the
one devolves on the other, and they become privies in
estate, the rule is not admitted to apply. Thus, if an
ancestor die, pending a suit, and the proceedings be
revived against his heir, or if a suit be revived against an
executor or administrator, the answer of the deceased
person, or any other evidence, establishing any fact
against him, might be read also against the person who
succeeds to him. So, a pendente lite purchaser is bound
by the decree, without being even made a party to the
suit; a fortiori, he would, if made a party, be bound by
the testimony taken against the vendor.
In this case, if Currie received the money taken out of
the Bank, and passed it over to Sullivan, the
establishment of this fact, in a suit against Currie, would
seem to bind his successor, Sullivan, both as a privy in
estate, and as a person getting possession pendente lite,
if the original suit had been instituted against Currie.
We can perceive no difference, so far as respects the
answer of Currie, between the case supposed, and the
case as it stands. If Currie, who was the predecessor of
Sullivan, admits that he received the money of [22 U.S.
833] the Bank, the fact seems to bind all those coming in
under him, as completely as it binds himself. This,
therefore, appears to the Court to be a case in which,
upon principle, the answer of Currie may be read.
His answer states, that on or about the 19th or 20th of
September, 1819, the defendant, Harper, delivered to
him, in coin and notes, the sum of 98,000 dollars, which
he was informed, and believed to be the money levied
on the Bank as a tax, in pursuance of the law of the State
of Ohio. After consulting counsel on the question,
whether he ought to retain this sum within his
individual control, or pass it to the credit of the State on
the books of the treasury, he adopted the latter course,
but retained it carefully in a trunk, separate from the
other funds of the treasury. The money afterwards came
to the hands of Sullivan, the gentleman who succeeded
him as treasurer, and gave him a receipt for all the
money in the treasury, including this, which was still
kept separate from the rest.
We think no reasonable doubt can be entertained, but
that the 98,000 dollars, delivered by Harper to Currie,
were taken out of the Bank. Currie understood and
believed it to be the fact. When did he so understand
and believe it? At the time when he received the money.
And from whom did he derive his understanding and
belief? The inference is irresistible, that he derived it
from his own knowledge of circumstances, for they
were of public notoriety, and from the information of
Harper. In the necessary course of things, Harper, who
was sent, as Currie must have known, on this [22 U.S.
834] business, brings with him to the treasurer of the
State, a sum of money, which, by the law, was to be
taken out of the Bank, pays him 98,000 dollars thereof,
which the treasurer receives and keeps, as being money
taken from the Bank, and so enters it on the books of
the treasury. In a suit brought against Mr. Currie for
this money, by the State of Ohio, if he had failed to
account for it, could any person doubt the competency
of the testimony to charge him? We think no mind
could hesitate in such a case.
Currie, then, being clearly in possession of this money,
and clearly liable for it, we are next to look into
Sullivan's answer, for the purpose of inquiring whether
he admits any facts which show him to be liable also.
Sullivan denies all personal knowledge of the
transaction; that is, he was not in office when it took
place, and was not present when the money was taken
out of the Bank, or when it was delivered to Currie. But
when he entered the treasury office, he received this
sum of 98,000 dollars, separate from the other money of
the treasury, which, he understood from report, and was
informed by his predecessor, from whom he received it,
was the money taken out of the Bank. This sum has
remained untouched ever since, from respect to the
injunction awarded by the Court.
We ask, if a rational doubt can remain on this subject.
Mr. Currie, as treasurer of the State of Ohio, receives
98,000 dollars, as being the amount of a tax imposed by
the Legislature of that State on [22 U.S. 835] the Bank of
the United States; enters the same on the books of the
treasury; and, the legality of the act by which the money
was levied being questioned, puts it in a trunk, and
keeps it apart from the other money belonging to the
public. He resigns his office, and is succeeded by Mr.
Sullivan, to whom he delivers the money, informing
him, at the same time, that it is the money raised from
the Bank; and Mr. Sullivan continues to keep it apart,
and abstains from the use of it, out of respect to an
injunction, forbidding him to pay it away, or in any
manner to dispose of it. Is it possible to doubt the
identity of this money?
Even admitting that the answer of Currie, though
establishing his liability as to himself, could not prove
even that fact as to Sullivan; the answer of Sullivan is
itself sufficient, we think, to charge him. He admits that
these 98,000 dollars were delivered to him, as being the
money which was taken out of the Bank, and that he so
received it; for, he says, he understood this sum was the
same as charged in the bill; that his information was
from report, and from his predecessor; and that the
money has remained untouched, from respect to the
injunction. This declaration, then, is a part of the fact.
The fact, as admitted in his answer, is not simply that he
received 98,000 dollars, but that he received 98,000
dollars, as being the money taken out of the Bank — the
money to which the writ of injunction applied.
In a common action between two private individuals,
such an admission would, at least, be sufficient to throw
on the defendant the burthen of [22 U.S. 836] proving
that the money, which he acknowledges himself to have
received and kept as the money of the plaintiff, was not
that which it was declared to be on its delivery. A
declaration, accompanying the delivery, and constituting
a part of it, gives a character to the transaction, and is
not to be placed on the same footing with a declaration
made by the same person at a different time. The answer
of Sullivan, then, is, in the opinion of the Court,
sufficient to show that these 98,000 dollars were the
specific dollars for which this suit was brought. This
sum having come to his possession with full knowledge
of the fact, in a separate trunk, unmixed with money,
and with notice that an injunction had been awarded
respecting it, he would seem to be responsible to the
plaintiff for it, unless he can show sufficient matter to
discharge himself.
3. The next objection is, to the decree against Osborn
and Harper, as to whom the bill was taken for confessed.
The bill charges, that Osborn employed John L. Harper
to collect the tax, who proceeded by violence to enter
the office of discount and deposit at Chilicothe, and
forcibly took therefrom 100,000 dollars in specie and
bank notes; and that, at the time of the seizure, Harper
well knew, and was duly notified, that an injunction had
been allowed, which money was delivered either to
Currie or Osborn.
So far as respects Harper and Osborn, these allegations
are to be considered as true. If the act of the Legislature
of Ohio, and the official [22 U.S. 837] character of
Osborn, constitute a defence, neither of these
defendants are liable, and the whole decree is erroneous;
but if the act be unconstitutional and void, it can be no
justification, and both these defendants are to be
considered as individuals who are amenable to the laws.
Considering them, for the present, in this character, the
fact, as made out in the bill, is, that Osborn employed
Harper to do an illegal act, and that Harper has done
that act; and that they are jointly responsible for it, is
supposed to be as well settled as any principle of law
whatever.
We think it unnecessary, in this part of the case, to enter
into the inquiry respecting the effect of the injunction.
No injunction is necessary to attach responsibility on
those who conspire to do an illegal act, which this is, if
not justified by the authority under which it was done.
4. The next objection is, to the allowance of interest on
the coin, which constituted a part of the sum decreed to
the complainants. Had the complainants, without the
intervention of a Court of equity, resorted to their legal
remedy for the injury sustained, their right to principal
and interest would have stood on equal ground. The
same rule would be adopted in a Court of equity, had the
subject been left under the control of the party in
possession, while the right was in litigation. But the
subject was not left under the control of the party. The
Court itself interposed, and forbade the person, in
whose possession the property was, to make any use of
it. This order having been obeyed, places the defendant
in the same [22 U.S. 838] situation, so far as respects
interest, as if the Court had taken the money into its
own custody. The defendant, in obeying the mandate of
the Court, becomes its instrument, as entirely as the
Clerk of the Court would have been, had the money
been placed in his hands. It does not appear reasonable,
that a decree which proceeds upon the idea, that the
injunction of the Court was valid, ought to direct
interest to be paid on the money which that injunction
restrained the defendant from using.
5. The fifth objection to the decree is, that the case made
in the bill does not warrant the interference of a Court
of Chancery.
In examining this question, it is proper that the Court
should consider the real case, and its actual
circumstances. The original bill prays for an injunction
against Ralph Osborn, Auditor of the State of Ohio, to
restrain him from executing a law of that State, to the
great oppression and injury of the complainants, and to
the destruction of rights and privileges conferred on
them by their charter, and by the constitution of the
United States. The true inquiry is, whether an
injunction can be issued to restrain a person, who is a
State officer, from performing any official act enjoined
by statute; and whether a Court of equity can decree
restitution, if the act be performed. In pursuing this
inquiry, it must be assumed, for the present, that the act
is unconstitutional, and furnishes no authority or
protection to the officer who is about to proceed under
it. This must be assumed, because, in the arrangement of
his argument, [22 U.S. 839] the counsel who opened the
cause, has chosen to reserve that point for the last, and
to contend that, though the law be void, no case is made
out against the defendants. We suspend, also, the
consideration of the question, whether the interest of
the State of Ohio, as disclosed in the bill, shows a want
of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, which ought to have
arrested its proceedings. That question, too, is reserved
by the appellants, and will be subsequently considered.
The sole inquiry, for the present, is, whether, stripping
the case of these objections, the plaintiffs below were
entitled to relief in a Court of equity, against the
defendants, and to the protection of an injunction. The
appellants expressly waive the extravagant proposition,
that a void act can afford protection to the person who
executes it, and admits the liability of the defendants to
the plaintiffs, to the extent of the injury sustained, in an
action at law. The question, then, is reduced to the
single inquiry, whether the case is cognizable in a Court
of equity. If it is, the decree must be affirmed, so far as it
is supported by the evidence in the cause.
The appellants allege, that the original bill contains no
allegation which can justify the application for an
injunction, and treat the declarations of Ralph Osborn,
the Auditor, that he should execute the law, as the light
and frivolous threats of an individual, that he would
commit an ordinary trespass. But surely this is not the
point of view in which the application for an injunction
is to be considered. The Legislature of Ohio had passed
[22 U.S. 840] a law for the avowed purpose of expelling
the Bank from the State; and had made it the duty of the
Auditor to execute it as a ministerial officer. He had
declared that he would perform this duty. The law, if
executed, would unquestionably effect its object, and
would deprive the Bank of its chartered privileges, so far
as they were to be exercised in that State. It must expel
the Bank from the State; and this is, we think, a
conclusion which the Court might rightfully draw from
the law itself. That the declarations of the Auditor
would be fulfilled, did not admit of reasonable doubt. It
was to be expected, that a person continuing to hold an
office, would perform a duty enjoined by his
government, which was completely within his power.
This duty was to be repeated until the Bank should
abandon the exercise of its chartered rights.
To treat this as a common casual trespass, would be to
disregard entirely its true character and substantial
merits. The application to the Court was, to interpose
its writ of injunction, to protect the Bank, not from the
casual trespass of an individual, who might not perform
the act he threatened, but from the total destruction of
its franchise, of its chartered privileges, so far as
respected the State of Ohio. It was morally certain, that
the Auditor would proceed to execute the law, and it
was morally certain, that the effect must be the
expulsion of the Bank from the State. An annual charge
of 100,000 dollars, would more than absorb all the
advantages of the privilege, and would consequently
annul it.
[22 U.S. 841] The appellants admit, that injunctions are
often awarded for the protection of parties in the
enjoyment of a franchise; but deny that one has ever
been granted in such a case as this. But, although the
precise case may never have occurred, if the same
principle applies, the same remedy ought to be afforded.
The interference of the Court in this class of cases, has
most frequently been to restrain a person from violating
an exclusive privilege, by participating in it. But if,
instead of a continued participation in the privilege, the
attempt be to disable the party from using it, is not the
reason for the interference of the Court rather
strengthened than weakened? Had the privilege of the
Bank been exclusive, the argument admits that any
other person, or company, might have been enjoined,
according to the regular course of the Court of
Chancery, from using or exercising the same business.
Why would such person or company have been
enjoined? To prevent a permanent injury from being
done to the party entitled to the franchise or privilege;
which injury, the appellants say, cannot be estimated in
damages. It requires no argument to prove, that the
injury is greater, if the whole privilege be destroyed,
than if it be divided; and, so far as respects the estimate
of damages, although precise accuracy may not be
attained, yet a reasonable calculation may be made of the
amount of the injury, so as to satisfy the Court and Jury.
It will not be pretended, that, in such a case, an action at
law could not be maintained, or that the materials do
not exist on which a verdict might be [22 U.S. 842]
found, and a judgment rendered. But in this, and many
other cases of continuing injuries, as in the case of
repeated ejectments, a Court of Chancery will interpose.
The injury done, by denying to the Bank the exercise of
its franchise in the State of Ohio, is as difficult to
calculate, as the injury done by participating in an
exclusive privilege. The single act of levying the tax in
the first instance, is the cause of an action at law; but
that affords a remedy only for the single act, and is not
equal to the remedy in Chancery, which prevents its
repetition, and protects the privilege. The same
conservative principle, which induces the Court to
interpose its authority for the protection of exclusive
privileges, to prevent the commission of waste, even in
some cases of trespass, and in many cases of destruction,
will, we think, apply to this. Indeed, trespass is
destruction, where there is no privity of estate.
If the State of Ohio could have been made a party
defendant, it can scarcely be denied, that this would be a
strong case for an injunction. The objection is, that, as
the real party cannot be brought before the Court, a suit
cannot be sustained against the agents of that party; and
cases have been cited, to show that a Court of Chancery
will not make a decree, unless all those who are
substantially interested, be made parties to the suit.
This is certainly true, where it is in the power of the
plaintiff to make them parties; but if the person who is
the real principal, the person who is the true source of
the mischief, by whose power and for whose advantage
it is done, be himself [22 U.S. 843] above the law, be
exempt from all judicial process, it would be subversive
of the best established principles, to say that the laws
could not afford the same remedies against the agent
employed in doing the wrong, which they would afford
against him, could his principal be joined in the suit. It is
admitted, that the privilege of the principal is not
communicated to the agent; for the appellants
acknowledge that an action at law would lie against the
agent, in which full compensation ought to be made for
the injury. It being admitted, then, that the agent is not
privileged by his connexion with his principal, that he is
responsible for his own act, to the full extent of the
injury, why should not the preventive power of the
Court also be applied to him? Why may it not restrain
him from the commission of a wrong, which it would
punish him for committing? We put out of view the
character of the principal as a sovereign State, because
that is made a distinct point, and consider the question
singly as respects the want of parties. Now, if the party
before the Court would be responsible for the whole
injury, why may he not be restrained from its
commission, if no other party can be brought before the
Court? The appellants found their distinction on the
legal principle, that all trespasses are several as well as
joint, without inquiry into the validity of this reason, if
true. We ask, if it be true? Will it be said, that the action
of trespass is the only remedy given for this injury? Can
it be denied, that an action on the case, for money had
and received to the plaintiff's use, might be maintained?
[22 U.S. 844] We think it cannot; and if such an action
might be maintained, no plausible reason suggests itself
to us, for the opinion, that an injunction may not be
awarded to restrain the agent, with as much propriety as
it might be awarded to restrain the principal, could the
principal be made a party.
We think the reason for an injunction is much stronger
in the actual, than it would be in the supposed case. In
the regular course of things, the agent would pay over
the money immediately to his principal, and would thus
place it beyond the reach of the injured party, since his
principal is not amenable to the law. The remedy for the
injury, would be against the agent only; and what agent
could make compensation for such an injury? The
remedy would have nothing real in it. It would be a
remedy in name only, not in substance. This alone
would, in our opinion, be a sufficient reason for a Court
of equity. The injury would, in fact, be irreparable; and
the cases are innumerable, in which injunctions are
awarded on this ground.
But, were it even to be admitted, that the injunction, in
the first instance, was improperly awarded, and that the
original bill could not be maintained, that would not, we
think, materially affect the case. An amended and
supplemental bill, making new parties, has been filed in
the cause, and on that bill, with the proceedings under
it, the decree was pronounced. The question is, whether
that bill and those proceedings support the decree.
The case they make, is, that the money and [22 U.S. 845]
notes of the plaintiffs, in the Circuit Court, have been
taken from them without authority, and are in
possession of one of the defendants, who keeps them
separate and apart from all other money and notes. It is
admitted, that this defendant would be liable for the
whole amount in an action at law; but it is denied that
he is liable in a Court of equity.
We think it a case in which a Court of equity ought to
interpose, and that there are several grounds on which
its jurisdiction may be placed.
One, which appears to be ample for the purpose, is, that
a Court will always interpose, to prevent the transfer of
a specific article, which, if transferred, will be lost to the
owner. Thus, the holder of negotiable securities,
indorsed in the usual manner, if he has acquired them
fraudulently, will be enjoined from negotiating them;
because if negotiated, the maker or indorser must pay
them.a Thus, too, a transfer of stock will be restrained in
favour of a person having the real property in the
article. In these cases, the injured party would have his
remedy at law; and the probability that this remedy
would be adequate, is stronger in the cases put in the
books, than in this, where the sum is so greatly beyond
the capacity of an ordinary agent to pay. But it is the
province of a Court of equity, in such cases, to arrest the
injury, and prevent the wrong. The remedy is more
beneficial and complete, than the law can give. The
money of the Bank, if mingled with the other money [22
U.S. 846] in the treasury, and put into circulation, would
be totally lost to the owners; and the reason for an
injunction is, at least, as strong in such a case, as in the
case of a negotiable note.
6. We proceed now to the 6th point made by the
appellants, which is, that if any case is made in the bill,
proper for the interference of a Court of Chancery, it is
against the State of Ohio, in which case the Circuit
Court could not exercise jurisdiction.
The bill is brought, it is said, for the purpose of
protecting the Bank in the exercise of a franchise
granted by a law of the United States, which franchise
the State of Ohio asserts a right to invade, and is about
to invade. It prays the aid of the Court to restrain the
officers of the State from executing the law. It is, then, a
controversy between the Bank and the State of Ohio.
The interest of the State is direct and immediate, not
consequential. The process of the Court, though not
directed against the State by name, acts directly upon it,
by restraining its officers. The process, therefore, is
substantially, though not in form, against the State, and
the Court ought not to proceed without making the
State a party. If this cannot be done, the Court cannot
take jurisdiction of the cause.
The full pressure of this argument is felt, and the
difficulties it presents are acknowledged. The direct
interest of the State in the suit, as brought, is admitted;
and, had it been in the power of the Bank to make it a
party, perhaps no decree ought to have been
pronounced in the cause, until the [22 U.S. 847] State
was before the Court. But this was not in the power of
the Bank. The eleventh amendment of the constitution
has exempted a State from the suits of citizens of other
States, or aliens; and the very difficult question is to be
decided, whether, in such a case, the Court may act upon
the agents employed by the State, and on the property in
their hands.
Before we try this question by the constitution, it may
not be time misapplied, if we pause for a moment, and
reflect on the relative situation of the Union with its
members, should the objection prevail.
A denial of jurisdiction forbids all inquiry into the
nature of the case. It applies to cases perfectly clear in
themselves; to cases where the government is in the
exercise of its best established and most essential
powers, as well as to those which may be deemed
questionable. It asserts, that the agents of a State,
alleging the authority of a law void in itself, because
repugnant to the constitution, may arrest the execution
of any law in the United States. It maintains, that if a
State shall impose a fine or penalty on any person
employed in the execution of any law of the United
States, it may levy that fine or penalty by a ministerial
officer, without the sanction even of its own Courts; and
that the individual, though he perceives the approaching
danger, can obtain no protection from the judicial
department of the government. The carrier of the mail,
the collector of the revenue, the marshal of a district, the
recruiting officer, may all be inhibited, under ruinous
[22 U.S. 848] penalties, from the performance of their
respective duties; the warrant of a ministerial officer
may authorize the collection of these penalties, and the
person thus obstructed in the performance of his duty,
may indeed resort to his action for damages, after the
infliction of the injury, but cannot avail himself of the
preventive justice of the nation to protect him in the
performance of his duties. Each member of the Union is
capable, at its will, of attacking the nation, of arresting
its progress at every step, of acting vigorously and
effectually in the execution of its designs, while the
nation stands naked, stripped of its defensive armour,
and incapable of shielding its agent or executing its laws,
otherwise than by proceedings which are to take place
after the mischief is perpetrated, and which must often
be ineffectual, from the inability of the agents to make
compensation.
These are said to be extreme cases; but the case at bar,
had it been put by way of illustration in argument,
might have been termed an extreme case; and, if a
penalty on a revenue officer, for performing his duty, be
more obviously wrong than a penalty on the Bank, it is a
difference in degree, not in principle. Public sentiment
would be more shocked by the infliction of a penalty on
a public officer for the performance of his duty, than by
the infliction of this penalty on a Bank which, while
carrying on the fiscal operations of the government, is
also transacting its own business; but, in both cases, the
officer levying the penalty acts under a void authority,
and the power [22 U.S. 849] to restrain him is denied as
positively in the one as in the other.
The distinction between any extreme case, and that
which has actually occurred, if, indeed, any difference of
principle can be supposed to exist between them,
disappears, when considering the question of
jurisdiction; for, if the Courts of the United States
cannot rightfully protect the agents who execute every
law authorized by the constitution, from the direct
action of State agents in the collection of penalties, they
cannot rightfully protect those who execute any law.
The question, then, is, whether the constitution of the
United States has provided a tribunal which can
peacefully and rightfully protect those who are
employed in carrying into execution the laws of the
Union, from the attempts of a particular State to resist
the execution of those laws.
The State of Ohio denies the existence of this power,
and contends, that no preventive proceedings whatever,
or proceedings against the very property which may
have been seized by the agent; of a State, can be
sustained against such agent, because they would be
substantially against the State itself, in violation of the
11th amendment of the constitution.
That the Courts of the Union cannot entertain a suit
brought against a State by an alien, or the citizen of
another State, is not to be controverted. Is a suit,
brought against an individual, for any cause whatever, a
suit against a State, in the sense of the constitution?
[22 U.S. 850] The 11th amendment is the limitation of a
power supposed to be granted in the original
instrument; and to understand accurately the extent of
the limitation, it seems proper to define the power that
is limited.
The words of the constitution, so far as they respect this
question, are, "The judicial power shall extend to
controversies between two or more States, between a
State and citizens of another State, and between a State
and foreign states, citizens, or subjects."
A subsequent clause distributes the power previously
granted, and assigns to the Supreme Court original
jurisdiction in those cases in which "a State shall be a
party."
The words of the 11th amendment are, "The judicial
power of the United States shall not be construed to
extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or
prosecuted against one of the United States, by citizens
of another State, or by citizens or subjects of a foreign
state."
The Bank of the United States contends, that in all cases
in which jurisdiction depends on the character of the
party, reference is made to the party on the record, not
to one who may be interested, but is not shown by the
record to be a party.
The appellants admit, that the jurisdiction of the Court
is not ousted by any incidental or consequential interest,
which a State may have in the decision to be made, but
is to be considered as a party where the decision acts
directly and immediately upon the State, through its
officers.
[22 U.S. 851] If this question were to be determined on
the authority of English decisions, it is believed that no
case can be adduced, where any person has been
considered as a party, who is not made so in the record.
But the Court will not review those decisions, because it
is thought a question growing out of the constitution of
the United States, requires rather an attentive
consideration of the words of that instrument, than of
the decisions of analogous questions by the Courts of
any other country.
Do the provisions, then, of the American constitution,
respecting controversies to which a State may be a party,
extend, on a fair construction of that instrument, to
cases in which the State is not a party on the record?
The first in the enumeration, is a controversy between
two or more States.
There are not many questions in which a State would be
supposed to take a deeper or more immediate interest,
than in those which decide on the extent of her
territory. Yet the constitution, not considering the State
as a party to such controversies, if not plaintiff or
defendant on the record, has expressly given jurisdiction
in those between citizens claiming lands under grants of
different States. If each State, in consequence of the
influence of a decision on her boundary, had been
considered, by the framers of the constitution, as a party
to that controversy, the express grant of jurisdiction
would have been useless. The grant of it certainly
proves, that the constitution [22 U.S. 852] does not
consider the State as a party in such a case.
Jurisdiction is expressly granted, in those cases only
where citizens of the same State claim lands under
grants of different States. If the claimants be citizens of
different States, the Court takes jurisdiction for that
reason. Still, the right of the State to grant, is the
essential point in dispute; and in that point the State is
deeply interested. If that interest converts the State into
a party, there is an end of the cause; and the constitution
will be construed to forbid the Circuit Courts to take
cognizance of questions to which it was thought
necessary expressly to extend their jurisdiction, even
when the controversy arose between citizens of the
same State.
We are aware, that the application of these cases may be
denied, because the title of the State comes on
incidentally, and the appellants admit the jurisdiction of
the Court, where its judgment does not act directly upon
the property or interests of the State; but we deemed it
of some importance to show, that the framers of the
constitution contemplated the distinction between cases
in which a State was interested, and those in which it
was a party, and made no provision for a case of interest,
without being a party on the record.
In cases where a State is a party on the record, the
question of jurisdiction is decided by inspection. If
jurisdiction depend, not on this plain fact, but on the
interest of the State, what rule has the constitution
given, by which this interest [22 U.S. 853] is to be
measured? If no rule be given, is it to be settled by the
Court? If so, the curious anomaly is presented, of a
Court examining the whole testimony of a cause,
inquiring into, and deciding on, the extent of a State's
interest, without having a right to exercise any
jurisdiction in the case. Can this inquiry be made
without the exercise of jurisdiction?
The next in the enumeration, is a controversy between a
State and the citizens of another State.
Can this case arise, if the State be not a party on the
record? If it can, the question recurs, what degree of
interest shall be sufficient to change the parties, and
arrest the proceedings against the individual?
Controversies respecting boundary have lately existed
between Virginia and Tennessee, between Kentucky
and Tennessee, and now exist between New-York and
New-Jersey. Suppose, while such a controversy is
pending, the collecting officer of one State should seize
property for taxes belonging to a man who supposes
himself to reside in the other State, and who seeks
redress in the federal Court of that State in which the
officer resides. The interest of the State is obvious. Yet it
is admitted, that in such a case the action would lie,
because the officer might be treated as a trespasser, and
the verdict and judgment against him would not act
directly on the property of the State. That it would not
so act, may, perhaps, depend on circumstances. The
officer may retain the amount of the taxes in his hands,
and, on the proceedings of the State against him, may
plead in bar the judgment of a Court of [22 U.S. 854]
competent jurisdiction. If this plea ought to be
sustained, and it is far from being certain that it ought
not, the judgment so pleaded would have acted directly
on the revenue of the State, in the hands of its officer.
And yet the argument admits, that the action, in such a
case, would be sustained. But, suppose, in such a case,
the party conceiving himself to be injured, instead of
bringing an action sounding in damages, should sue for
the specific thing, while yet in possession of the seizing
officer. It being admitted, in argument, that the action
sounding in damages would lie, we are unable to
perceive the line of distinction between that and the
action of detinue. Yet the latter action would claim the
specific article seized for the tax, and would obtain it,
should the seizure be deemed unlawful.
It would be tedious to pursue this part of the inquiry
farther, and it would be useless, because every person
will perceive that the same reasoning is applicable to all
the other enumerated controversies to which a State
may be a party. The principle may be illustrated by a
reference to those other controversies where
jurisdiction depends on the party. But, before we review
them, we will notice one where the nature of the
controversy is, in some degree, blended with the
character of the party.
If a suit be brought against a foreign minister, the
Supreme Court alone has original jurisdiction, and this
is shown on the record. But, suppose a suit to be
brought which affects the interest of a foreign minister,
or by which the person of his secretary, [22 U.S. 855] or
of his servant, is arrested. The minister does not, by the
mere arrest of his secretary, or his servant, become a
party to this suit, but the actual defendant pleads to the
jurisdiction of the Court, and asserts his privilege. If the
suit affects a foreign minister, it must be dismissed, not
because he is a party to it, but because it affects him. The
language of the constitution in the two cases is different.
This Court can take cognizance of all cases "affecting"
foreign ministers; and, therefore, jurisdiction does not
depend on the party named in the record. But this
language changes, when the enumeration proceeds to
States. Why this change? The answer is obvious. In the
case of foreign ministers, it was intended, for reasons
which all comprehend, to give the national Courts
jurisdiction over all cases by which they were in any
manner affected. In the case of States, whose immediate
or remote interests were mixed up with a multitude of
cases, and who might be affected in an almost infinite
variety of ways, it was intended to give jurisdiction in
those cases only to which they were actual parties.
In proceeding with the cases in which jurisdiction
depends on the character of the party, the first in the
enumeration is, "controversies to which the United
States shall be a party."
Does this provision extend to the cases where the
United States are not named in the record, but claim,
and are actually entitled to, the whole subject in
controversy?
Let us examine this question.
Suits brought by the Postmaster-General are [22 U.S.
856] for money due to the United States. The nominal
plaintiff has no interest in the controversy, and the
United States are the only real party. Yet, these suits
could not be instituted in the Courts of the Union,
under that clause which gives jurisdiction in all cases to
which the United States are a party; and it was found
necessary to give the Court jurisdiction over them, as
being cases arising under a law of the United States.
The judicial power of the Union is also extended to
controversies between citizens of different States; and it
has been decided, that the character of the parties must
be shown on the record. Does this provision depend on
the character of those whose interest is litigated, or of
those who are parties on the record? In a suit, for
example, brought by or against an executor, the
creditors or legatees of his testator are the persons really
concerned in interest; but it has never been suspected
that, if the executor be a resident of another State, the
jurisdiction of the federal Courts could be ousted by the
fact, that the creditors or legatees were citizens of the
same State with the opposite party. The universally
received construction in this case is, that jurisdiction is
neither given nor ousted by the relative situation of the
parties concerned in interest, but by the relative
situation of the parties named on the record. Why is this
construction universal? No case can be imagined, in
which the existence of an interest out of the party on the
record is more unequivocal than in that which has been
just stated. Why, then, is it universally admitted, that
this interest in [22 U.S. 857] no manner affects the
jurisdiction of the Court? The plain and obvious answer
is, because the jurisdiction of the Court depends, not
upon this interest, but upon the actual party on the
record.
Were a State to be the sole legatee, it will not, we
presume, be alleged, that the jurisdiction of the Court, in
a suit against the executor, would be more affected by
this fact, than by the fact that any other person, not
suable in the Courts of the Union, was the sole legatee.
Yet, in such a case, the Court would decide directly and
immediately on the interest of the State.
This principle might be further illustrated by showing
that jurisdiction, where it depends on the character of
the party, is never conferred in consequence of the
existence of an interest in a party not named; and by
showing that, under the distributive clause of the 2d
section of the 3d article, the Supreme Court could never
take original jurisdiction, in consequence of an interest
in a party not named in the record.
But the principle seems too well established to require
that more time should be devoted to it. It may, we think,
be laid down as a rule which admits of no exception,
that, in all cases where jurisdiction depends on the party,
it is the party named in the record. Consequently, the
11th amendment, which restrains the jurisdiction
granted by the constitution over suits against States, is,
of necessity, limited to those suits in which a State is a
party on the record. The amendment has its full effect, if
the constitution be construed as it [22 U.S. 858] would
have been construed, had the jurisdiction of the Court
never been extended to suits brought against a State, by
the citizens of another State, or by aliens.
The State not being a party on the record, and the Court
having jurisdiction over those who are parties on the
record, the true question is, not one of jurisdiction, but
whether, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, the Court
ought to make a decree against the defendants; whether
they are to be considered as having a real interest, or as
being only nominal parties.
In pursuing the arrangement which the appellants have
made for the argument of the cause, this question has
already been considered. The responsibility of the
officers of the State for the money taken out of the
Bank, was admitted, and it was acknowledged that this
responsibility might be enforced by the proper action.
The objection is, to its being enforced against the
specific article taken, and by the decree of this Court.
But, it has been shown, we think, that an action of
detinue might be maintained for that article, if the Bank
had possessed the means of describing it, and that the
interest of the State would not have been an obstacle to
the suit of the Bank against the individual in possession
of it. The judgment in such a suit might have been
enforced, had the article been found in possession of the
individual defendant. It has been shown, that the danger
of its being parted with, of its being lost to the plaintiff,
and the necessity of a discovery, justified the application
to a Court of equity. It was in a [22 U.S. 859] Court of
equity alone that the relief would be real, substantial,
and effective. The parties must certainly have a real
interest in the case, since their personal responsibility is
acknowledged, and, if denied, could be demonstrated.
It was proper, then, to make a decree against the
defendants in the Circuit Court, if the law of the State of
Ohio be repugnant to the constitution, or to a law of the
United States made in pursuance thereof, so as to
furnish no authority to those who took, or to those who
received, the money for which this suit was instituted.
7. Is that law unconstitutional?
This point was argued with great ability, and decided by
this Court, after mature and deliberate consideration, in
the case of M'Culloch v. The State of Maryland. A
revision of that opinion has been requested; and many
considerations combine to induce a review of it.
The foundation of the argument in favour of the right of
a State to tax the Bank, is laid in the supposed character
of that institution. The argument supposes the
corporation to have been originated for the
management of an individual concern, to be founded
upon contract between individuals, having private trade
and private profit for its great end and principal object.
If these premises were true, the conclusion drawn from
them would be inevitable. This mere private
corporation, engaged in its own business, with its own
views, would certainly be subject to the taxing power of
the State, as any individual would be; and the casual
circumstance of its being [22 U.S. 860] employed by the
government in the transaction of its fiscal affairs, would
no more exempt its private business from the operation
of that power, than it would exempt the private business
of any individual employed in the same manner. But the
premises are not true. The Bank is not considered as a
private corporation, whose principal object is individual
trade and individual profit; but as a public corporation,
created for public and national purposes. That the mere
business of banking is, in its own nature, a private
business, and may be carried on by individuals or
companies having no political connexion with the
government, is admitted; but the Bank is not such an
individual or company. It was not created for its own
sake, or for private purposes. It has never been supposed
that Congress could create such a corporation. The
whole opinion of the Court, in the case of M'Culloch v.
The State of Maryland, is founded on, and sustained by,
the idea that the Bank is an instrument which is
"necessary and proper for carrying into effect the
powers vested in the government of the United States."
It is not an instrument which the government found
ready made, and has supposed to be adapted to its
purposes; but one which was created in the form in
which it now appears, for national purposes only. It is,
undoubtedly, capable of transacting private as well as
public business. While it is the great instrument by
which the fiscal operations of the government are
effected, it is also trading with individuals for its own
advantage. The appellants endeavor to distinguish
between this trade and its [22 U.S. 861] agency for the
public, between its Banking operations and those
qualities which it possesses in common with every
corporation, such as individuality, immortality, &c.
While they seem to admit the right to preserve this
corporate existence, they deny the right to protect it in
its trade and business.
If there be any thing in this distinction, it would tend to
show that so much of the act as incorporates the Bank is
constitutional, but so much of it as authorizes its
Banking operations is unconstitutional. Congress can
make the inanimate body, and employ the machine as a
depository of, and vehicle for, the conveyance of the
treasure of the nation, if it be capable of being so
employed, but cannot breathe into it the vital spirit
which alone can bring it into useful existence.
Let this distinction be considered.
Why is it that Congress can incorporate or create a
Bank? This question was answered in the case of
M`Culloch v. The State of Maryland. It is an instrument
which is "necessary and proper" for carrying on the
fiscal operations of government. Can this instrument,
on any rational calculation, effect its object, unless it be
endowed with that faculty of lending and dealing in
money, which is conferred by its charter? If it can, if it
be as competent to the purposes of government
without, as with this faculty, there will be much
difficulty in sustaining that essential part of the charter.
If it cannot, then this faculty is necessary to the
legitimate operations of government, and was
constitutionally and rightfully engrafted on the
institution. It is, in that view of the subject, [22 U.S. 862]
the vital part of the corporation; it is its soul; and the
right to preserve it originates in the same principle, with
the right to preserve the skeleton or body which it
animates. The distinction between destroying what is
denominated the corporate franchise, and destroying its
vivifying principle, is precisely as incapable of being
maintained, as a distinction between the right to
sentence a human being to death, and a right to sentence
him to a total privation of sustenance during life.
Deprive a Bank of its trade and business, which is its
sustenance, and its immortality, if it have that property,
will be a very useless attribute.
This distinction, then, has no real existence. To tax its
faculties, its trade, and occupation, is to tax the Bank
itself? To destroy or preserve the one, is to destroy or
preserve the other.
It is urged, that Congress has not, by this act of
incorporation, created the faculty of trading in money;
that it had anterior existence, and may be carried on by a
private individual, or company, as well as by a
corporation. As this profession or business may be
taxed, regulated, or restrained, when conducted by an
individual, it may, likewise, be taxed, regulated, or
restrained, when conducted by a corporation.
The general correctness of these propositions need not
be controverted. Their particular application to the
question before the Court, is alone to be considered. We
do not maintain that the corporate character of the Bank
exempts its operations from the action of State
authority. If an individual were to be endowed with the
same faculties, [22 U.S. 863] for the same purposes, he
would be equally protected in the exercise of those
faculties. The operations of the Bank are believed not
only to yield the compensation for its services to the
government, but to be essential to the performance of
those services. Those operations give its value to the
currency in which all the transactions of the
government are conducted. They are, therefore,
inseparably connected with those transactions. They
enable the Bank to render those services to the nation
for which it was created, and are, therefore, of the very
essence of its character, as national instruments. The
business of the Bank constitutes its capacity to perform
its functions, as a machine for the money transactions of
the government. Its corporate character is merely an
incident, which enables it to transact that business more
beneficially.
Were the Secretary of the Treasury to be authorized, by
law, to appoint agencies throughout the Union, to
perform the public functions of the Bank, and to be
endowed with its faculties, as a necessary auxiliary to
those functions, the operations of those agents would be
as exempt from the control of the States as the Bank,
and not more so. If, instead of the Secretary of the
Treasury, a distinct office were to be created for the
purpose, filled by a person who should receive, as a
compensation for his time, labour, and expense, the
profits of the banking business, instead of other
emoluments, to be drawn from the treasury, which
banking business was essential to the operations of the
government, would each State in the Union possess a
right to [22 U.S. 864] control these operations? The
question on which this right would depend must always
be, are these faculties so essential to the fiscal operations
of the government, as to authorize Congress to confer
them? Let this be admitted, and the question, does the
right to preserve them exist? must always be answered
in the affirmative.
Congress was of opinion that these faculties were
necessary, to enable the Bank to perform the services
which are exacted from it, and for which it was created.
This was certainly a question proper for the
consideration of the national Legislature. But, were it
now to undergo revision, who would have the
hardihood to say, that, without the employment of a
banking capital, those services could be performed? That
the exercise of these faculties greatly facilitates the fiscal
operations of the government, is too obvious for
controversy; and who will venture to affirm, that the
suppression of them would not materially affect those
operations, and essentially impair, if not totally destroy,
the utility of the machine to the government? The
currency which it circulates, by means of its trade with
individuals, is believed to make it a more fit instrument
for the purposes of government, than it could otherwise
be; and, if this be true, the capacity to carry on this
trade, is a faculty indispensable to the character and
objects of the institution.
The appellants admit, that, if this faculty be necessary, to
make the Bank a fit instrument for the purposes of the
government, Congress possesses the same power to
protect the machine in [22 U.S. 865] this, as in its direct
fiscal operations; but they deny that it is necessary to
those purposes, and insist that it is granted solely for the
benefit of the members of the corporation. Were this
proposition to be admitted, all the consequences which
are drawn from it might follow. But it is not admitted.
The Court has already stated its conviction, that without
this capacity to trade with individuals, the Bank would
be a very defective instrument, when considered with a
single view to its fitness for the purposes of
government. On this point the whole argument rests.
It is contended, that, admitting Congress to possess the
power, this exemption ought to have been expressly
asserted in the act of incorporation; and, not being
expressed, ought not to be implied by the Court.
It is not unusual, for a legislative act to involve
consequences which are not expressed. An officer, for
example, is ordered to arrest an individual. It is not
necessary, nor is it usual, to say that he shall not be
punished for obeying this order. His security is implied
in the order itself. It is no unusual thing for an act of
Congress to imply, without expressing, this very
exemption from State control, which is said to be so
objectionable in this instance. The collectors of the
revenue, the carriers of the mail, the mint
establishment, and all those institutions which are
public in their nature, are examples in point. It has
never been doubted, that all who are employed in them,
are protected, while in the line of duty; and yet this
protection is not expressed in any act of Congress. It is
incidental [22 U.S. 866] to, and is implied in, the several
acts by which these institutions are created, and is
secured to the individuals employed in them, by the
judicial power alone; that is, the judicial power is the
instrument employed by the government in
administering this security.
That department has no will, in any case. If the sound
construction of the act be, that it exempts the trade of
the Bank, as being essential to the character of a
machine necessary to the fiscal operations of the
government, from the control of the States, Courts are
as much bound to give it that construction, as if the
exemption had been established in express terms.
Judicial power, as contradistinguished from the power
of the laws, has no existence. Courts are the mere
instruments of the law, and can will nothing. When
they are said to exercise a discretion, it is a mere legal
discretion, a discretion to be exercised in discerning the
course prescribed by law; and, when that is discerned, it
is the duty of the Court to follow it. Judicial power is
never exercised for the purpose of giving effect to the
will of the Judge; always for the purpose of giving effect
to the will of the Legislature; or, in other words, to the
will of the law.
The appellants rely greatly on the distinction between
the Bank and the public institutions, such as the mint or
the post office. The agents in those offices are, it is said,
officers of government, and are excluded from a seat in
Congress. Not so the directors of the Bank. The
connexion of the government with the Bank, is likened
to that with contractors.
It will not be contended, that the directors, or [22 U.S.
867] other officers of the Bank, are officers of
government. But it is contended, that, were their
resemblance to contractors more perfect than it is, the
right of the State to control its operations, if those
operations be necessary to its character, as a machine
employed by the government, cannot be maintained.
Can a contractor for supplying a military post with
provisions, be restrained from making purchases within
any State, or from transporting the provisions to the
place at which the troops were stationed? or could he be
fined or taxed for doing so? We have not yet heard these
questions answered in the affirmative. It is true, that the
property of the contractor may be taxed, as the property
of other citizens; and so may the local property of the
Bank. But we do not admit that the act of purchasing, or
of conveying the articles purchased, can be under State
control.
If the trade of the Bank be essential to its character, as a
machine for the fiscal operations of the government,
that trade must be as exempt from State control as the
actual conveyance of the public money. Indeed, a tax
bears upon the whole machine; as well upon the faculty
of collecting and transmitting the money of the nation,
as on that of discounting the notes of individuals. No
distinction is taken between them.
Considering the capacity of carrying on the trade of
banking, as an important feature in the character of this
corporation, which was necessary, to make it a fit
instrument for the objects for which it was created, the
Court adheres to its decision in the case of M`Culloch
against The State [22 U.S. 868] of Maryland, and is of
opinion, that the act of the State of Ohio, which is
certainly much more objectionable than that of the State
of Maryland, is repugnant to a law of the United States,
made in pursuance of the constitution, and, therefore,
void. The counsel for the appellants are too intelligent,
and have too much self respect, to pretend, that a void
act can afford any protection to the officers who execute
it. They expressly admit that it cannot.
It being then shown, we think conclusively, that the
defendants could derive neither authority nor
protection from the act which they executed, and that
this suit is not against the State of Ohio within the view
of the constitution, the State being no party on the
record, the only real question in the cause is, whether
the record contains sufficient matter to justify the Court
in pronouncing a decree against the defendants? That
this question is attended with great difficulty, has not
been concealed or denied. But when we reflect that the
defendants, Osborne and Harper, are incontestably liable
for the full amount of the money taken out of the Bank;
that the defendant, Currie, is also responsible for the
sum received by him, it having come to his hands with
full knowledge of the unlawful means by which it was
acquired; that the defendant, Sullivan, is also responsible
for the sum specifically delivered to him, with notice
that it was the property of the Bank, unless the form of
having made an entry on the books of the treasury can
countervail the fact, that it was, in truth, kept
untouched, in a trunk, by itself, as a deposit, to await [22
U.S. 869] the event of the pending suit respecting it; we
may lay it down as a proposition, safely to be affirmed,
that all the defendants in the cause were liable in an
action at law for the amount of this decree. If the
original injunction was properly awarded, for the
reasons stated in the preceding part of this opinion, the
money, having reached the hands of all those to whom it
afterwards came with notice of that injunction, might be
pursued, so long as it remained a distinct deposit,
neither mixed with the money of the treasury, nor put
into circulation. Were it to be admitted, that the
original injunction was not properly awarded, still the
amended and supplemental bill, which brings before the
Court all the parties who had been concerned in the
transaction, was filed after the cause of action had
completely accrued. The money of the Bank had been
taken, without authority, by some of the defendants, and
was detained by the only person who was not an
original wrong doer, in a specific form; so that detinue
might have been maintained for it, had it been in the
power of the Bank to prove the facts which are
necessary to establish the identity of the property sued
for. Under such circumstances, we think, a Court of
equity may afford its aid, on the ground that a discovery
is necessary, and also on the same principle that an
injunction issues to restrain a person who has
fraudulently obtained possession of negotiable notes,
from putting them into circulation; or a person having
the apparent ownership of stock really belonging to
another, from transferring it. The suit, then, might be as
well sustained in a [22 U.S. 870] Court of equity as in a
Court of law, and the objection that the interests of the
State are committed to subordinate agents, if true, is the
unavoidable consequence of exemption from being sued
— of sovereignty. The interests of the United States are
sometimes committed to subordinate agents. It was the
case in Hoyt v. Gelston, in the case of The Apollon, and
in the case of Doddridge's Lessee v. Thompson and
Wright, and in many others. An independent foreign
sovereign cannot be sued, and does not appear in Court.
But a friend of the Court comes in, and, by suggestion,
gives it to understand, that his interests are involved in
the controversy. The interests of the sovereign, in such
a case, and in every other where he chooses to assert
them under the name of the real party to the cause are as
well defended as if he were a party to the record. But his
pretensions, where they are not well founded, cannot
arrest the right of a party having a right to the thing for
which he sues. Where the right is in the plaintiff, and
the possession in the defendant, the inquiry cannot be
stopped by the mere assertion of title in a sovereign.
The Court must proceed to investigate the assertion,
and examine the title. In the case at bar, the tribunal
established by the constitution, for the purpose of
deciding, ultimately, in all cases of this description, had
solemnly determined, that a State law imposing a tax on
the Bank of the United States, was unconstitutional and
void, before the wrong was committed for which this
suit was brought.
We think, then, that there is no error in the decree [22
U.S. 871] of the Circuit Court for the district of Ohio, so
far as it directs restitution of the specific sum of 98,000
dollars, which was taken out of the Bank unlawfully, and
was in the possession of the defendant, Samuel Sullivan,
when the injunction was awarded, in September, 1820,
to restrain him from paying it away, or in any manner
using it; and so far as it directs the payment of the
remaining sum of 2000 dollars, by the defendants, Ralph
Osborne and John L. Harper; but that the same is
erroneous, so far as respects the interest on the coin,
part of the said 98,000 dollars, it being the opinion of
this Court, that, while the parties were restrained by the
authority of the Circuit Court from using it, they ought
not to be charged with interest. The decree of the
Circuit Court for the district of Ohio is affirmed, as to
the said sums of 98,000 dollars, and 2000 dollars; and
reversed, as to the residue.