There are published in the United States about 2,500
daily papers.1 More than 800 of them are supplied with
domestic and foreign news of general interest by the
Associated Press — a corporation without capital stock
which does not sell news or earn or seek to earn profits,
but serves merely as an instrumentality by means of
which these papers supply themselves at joint expense
with such news. Papers not members of the Associated
Press depend for their news of general interest largely
upon agencies organized for profit.2 Among these
agencies [248 U.S. 249] is the International News Service
which supplies news to about 400 subscribing papers. It
has, like the Associated Press, bureaus and
correspondents in this and foreign countries; and its
annual expenditure in gathering and distributing news is
about $2,000,000. Ever since its organization in 1909, it
has included among the sources from which it gathers
news, copies (purchased in the open market) of early
editions of some papers published by members of the
Associated Press and the bulletins publicly posted by
them. These items, which constitute but a small part of
the news transmitted to its subscribers, are generally
verified by the International News Service before
transmission; but frequently items are transmitted
without verification; and occasionally even without
being re-written. In no case is the fact disclosed that
such item was suggested by or taken from a paper or
bulletin published by an Associated Press member.
No question of statutory copyright is involved. The sole
question for our consideration is this: Was the
International News Service properly enjoined from
using, or causing to be used gainfully, news of which it
acquired knowledge by lawful means (namely, by
reading publicly posted bulletins or papers purchased by
it in the open market) merely because the news had
been originally gathered by the Associated Press and
continued to be of value to some of its members, or
because it did not reveal the source from which it was
acquired?
The "ticker" cases, the cases concerning literary and
artistic compositions, and cases of unfair competition
were relied upon in support of the injunction. But it is
admitted that none of those cases affords a complete
analogy with that before us. The question presented for
decision is new; and it is important.
News is a report of recent occurrences. The business of
the news agency is to gather systematically knowledge
[248 U.S. 250] of such occurrences of interest and to
distribute reports thereof. The Associated Press
contended that knowledge so acquired is property,
because it costs money and labor to produce and because
it has value for which those who have it not are ready to
pay; that it remains property and is entitled to
protection as long as it has commercial value as news;
and that to protect it effectively the defendant must be
enjoined from making, or causing to be made, any
gainful use of it while it retains such value. An essential
element of individual property is the legal right to
exclude others from enjoying it. If the property is
private, the right of exclusion may be absolute; if the
property is affected with a public interest, the right of
exclusion is qualified. But the fact that a product of the
mind has cost its producer money and labor, and has a
value for which others are willing to pay, is not
sufficient to ensure to it this legal attribute of property.
The general rule of law is, that the noblest of human
productions — knowledge, truths ascertained,
conceptions, and ideas — become, after voluntary
communication to others, free as the air to common use.
Upon these incorporeal productions the attribute of
property is continued after such communication only in
certain classes of cases where public policy has seemed
to demand it. These exceptions are confined to
productions which, in some degree, involve creation,
invention, or discovery. But by no means all such are
endowed with this attribute of property. The creations
which are recognized as property by the common law
are literary, dramatic, musical, and other artistic
creations; and these have also protection under the
copyright statutes. The inventions and discoveries upon
which this attribute of property is conferred only by
statute, are the few comprised within the patent law.
There are also many other cases in which courts
interfere to prevent curtailment of plaintiff's enjoyment
of incorporeal productions; and in which the [248 U.S.
251] right to relief is often called a property right, but is
such only in a special sense. In those cases, the plaintiff
has no absolute right to the protection of his
production; he has merely the qualified right to be
protected as against the defendant's acts, because of the
special relation in which the latter stands or the
wrongful method or means employed in acquiring the
knowledge or the manner in which it is used. Protection
of this character is afforded where the suit is based upon
breach of contract or of trust or upon unfair
competition.
The knowledge for which protection is sought in the
case at bar is not of a kind upon which the law has
heretofore conferred the attributes of property; nor is
the manner of its acquisition or use nor the purpose to
which it is applied, such as has heretofore been
recognized as entitling a plaintiff to relief.
First: Plaintiff's principal reliance was upon the "ticker"
cases; but they do not support its contention. The
leading cases on this subject rest the grant of relief, not
upon the existence of a general property right in news,
but upon the breach of a contract or trust concerning
the use of news communicated; and that element is
lacking here. In Board of Trade v. Christie Grain &
Stock Co., 198 U.S. 236, 250, the court said the Board
"does not lose its rights by communicating the result
[the quotations] to persons, even if many, in
confidential relations to itself, under a contract not to
make it public, and strangers to the trust will be
restrained from getting at the knowledge by inducing a
breach of trust and using knowledge obtained by such a
breach." And it is also stated there, (page 251): "Time is
of the essence in matters like this, and it fairly may be
said that, if the contracts with the plaintiff are kept, the
information will not become public property until the
plaintiff has gained its reward." The only other case in
this court which relates to this subject is Hunt v. N.Y.
Cotton Exchange, 205 U.S. 322. [248 U.S. 252] While
the opinion there refers the protection to a general
property right in the quotations, the facts are
substantially the same as those in the Christie Case,
which is the chief authority on which the decision is
based. Of the cases in the lower federal courts and in the
state courts it may be said, that most of them too can, on
their facts, be reconciled with this principle, though
much of the language of the courts cannot be.1a In spite
of anything that may appear in these cases to the
contrary it seems that the true principle is stated in the
Christie Case, that the collection of quotations "stands
like a trade secret." And in Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park
& Sons Co., 220 U.S. 373, 402, this court says of a trade
secret: "Any one may use it who fairly, by analysis and
experiment, discovers it. But the complainant is entitled
to be protected against invasion of its right in the
process by fraud or by breach of trust or contract." See
John D. Park & Sons Co. v. Hartman, 153 Fed. Rep. 24,
29.
The leading English case, Exchange Telegraph Co. v.
Gregory & Co., [1896] 1 Q.B. 147, is also rested clearly
upon a breach of contract or trust, although there is
some [248 U.S. 253] reference to a general property
right. The later English cases seem to have rightly
understood the basis of the decision, and they have not
sought to extend it further than was intended. Indeed,
we find the positive suggestion in some cases that the
only ground for relief is the manner in which
knowledge of the report of the news was acquired.1b
If the news involved in the case at bar had been posted
in violation of any agreement between the Associated
Press and its members, questions similar to those in the
"ticker" cases might have arisen. But the plaintiff does
not contend that the posting was wrongful or that any
papers were wrongfully issued by its subscribers. On the
contrary it is conceded that both the bulletins and the
papers were issued in accordance with the regulations of
the plaintiff. Under such circumstances, for a reader of
the papers purchased in the open market, or a reader of
the bulletins publicly posted, to procure and use
gainfully, information therein contained, does not
involve inducing anyone to commit a breach either of
contract or of trust, or committing or in any way
abetting a breach of confidence.
Second: Plaintiff also relied upon the cases which hold
that the common-law right of the producer to prohibit
copying is not lost by the private circulation of a literary
composition, the delivery of a lecture, the exhibition
[248 U.S. 254] of a painting, or the performance of a
dramatic or musical composition.1c These cases rest
upon the ground that the common law recognizes such
productions as property which, despite restricted
communication, continues until there is a dedication to
the public under the copyright statutes or otherwise. But
they are inapplicable for two reasons. (1) At common
law, as under the copyright acts, intellectual productions
are entitled to such protection only if there is
underneath something evincing the mind of a creator or
originator, however modest the requirement. The mere
record of isolated happenings, whether in words or by
photographs not involving artistic skill, are denied such
protection.2a (2) At common law, as under the copyright
acts, the element in intellectual productions which
secures such protection is not the knowledge, truths,
ideas, or emotions which the composition expresses, but
the form or sequence in which they are expressed; that
is, "some new collocation of visible or audible points, —
of lines, colors, sounds, or [248 U.S. 255] words." See
White-Smith Music Co. v. Apollo Co., 209 U.S. 1, 19;
Kalem Co. v. Harper Brothers, 222 U.S. 55, 63. An
author's theories, suggestions, and speculations, or the
systems, plans, methods, and arrangements of an
originator, derive no such protection from the statutory
copyright of the book in which they are set forth;1d and
they are likewise denied such protection at common
law.2b
That news is not property in the strict sense is
illustrated by the case of Sports and General Press
Agency, Ltd., v. "Our Dogs" Publishing Co., Ltd., [1916]
2 K.B. 880, where the plaintiff, the assignee of the right
to photograph the exhibits at a dog show, was refused
an injunction against defendant who had also taken
pictures of the show and was publishing them. The
court said that, except in so far as the possession of the
land occupied by the show enabled the proprietors to
exclude people or permit them on condition that they
agree not to take photographs (which condition was not
imposed in that case), the proprietors had no exclusive
right to photograph the show and could therefore grant
no such right. And, it was further stated that, at any rate,
no matter what conditions might be imposed upon
those entering the grounds, if the defendant had been on
top of a house or in some position where he could
photograph the show without interfering with the
physical property of the plaintiff, the plaintiff would
have no right to stop him. If, when the plaintiff creates
the event recorded, he is not entitled to the exclusive
first publication of the [248 U.S. 256] news (in that case a
photograph) of the event, no reason can be shown why
he should be accorded such protection as to events
which he simply records and transmits to other parts of
the world, though with great expenditure of time and
money.
Third: If news be treated as possessing the
characteristics not of a trade secret, but of literary
property, then the earliest issue of a paper of general
circulation or the earliest public posting of a bulletin
which embodies such news would, under the established
rules governing literary property, operate as a
publication, and all property in the news would then
cease. Resisting this conclusion, plaintiff relied upon the
cases which hold that uncopyrighted intellectual and
artistic property survives private circulation or a
restricted publication; and it contended that in each
issue of each paper, a restriction is to be implied that the
news shall not be used gainfully in competition with the
Associated Press or any of its members. There is no
basis for such an implication. But it is also well settled
that where the publication is in fact a general one, even
express words of restriction upon use are inoperative. In
other words, a general publication is effective to
dedicate literary property to the public, regardless of the
actual intent of its owner.1e In the cases dealing with
lectures, dramatic and musical performances, and art
exhibitions,2c upon which plaintiff relied, there was no
general publication in print comparable to the issue of
daily newspapers or the unrestricted public posting of
bulletins. The principles governing those cases differ
more or less in application, if not in theory, from the
principles governing the issue of printed copies; [248
U.S. 257] and in so far as they do differ, they have no
application to the case at bar.
Fourth: Plaintiff further contended that defendant's
practice constitutes unfair competition, because there is
"appropriation without cost to itself of values created
by" the plaintiff; and it is upon this ground that the
decision of this court appears to be based. To
appropriate and use for profit, knowledge and ideas
produced by other men, without making compensation
or even acknowledgment, may be inconsistent with a
finer sense of propriety; but, with the exceptions
indicated above, the law has heretofore sanctioned the
practice. Thus it was held that one may ordinarily make
and sell anything in any form, may copy with exactness
that which another has produced, or may otherwise use
his ideas without his consent and without the payment
of compensation, and yet not inflict a legal injury;1f and
that ordinarily one is at perfect liberty to find out, if he
can by lawful means, trade secrets of another, however
valuable, and then use the knowledge so acquired
gainfully, although it cost the original owner much in
effort and in money to collect or produce.2d
[248 U.S. 258] Such taking and gainful use of a product
of another which, for reasons of public policy, the law
has refused to endow with the attributes of property,
does not become unlawful because the product happens
to have been taken from a rival and is used in
competition with him. The unfairness in competition
which hitherto has been recognized by the law as a basis
for relief, lay in the manner or means of conducting the
business; and the manner or means held legally unfair,
involves either fraud or force or the doing of acts
otherwise prohibited by law. In the "passing off" cases
(the typical and most common case of unfair
competition), the wrong consists in fraudulently
representing by word or act that defendant's goods are
those of plaintiff. See Hanover Milling Co. v. Metcalf,
240 U.S. 403, 412-413. In the other cases, the diversion
of trade was effected through physical or moral
coercion, or by inducing breaches of contract or of trust
or by enticing away employees. In some others, called
cases of simulated competition, relief was granted
because defendant's purpose was unlawful; namely, not
competition but deliberate and wanton destruction of
plaintiff's business.1g
[248 U.S. 259] That competition is not unfair in a legal
sense, merely because the profits gained are unearned,
even if made at the expense of a rival, is shown by many
cases besides those referred to above. He who follows
the pioneer into a new market, or who engages in the
manufacture of an article newly introduced by another,
seeks profits due largely to the labor and expense of the
first adventurer; but the law sanctions, indeed
encourages, the pursuit.1h He who makes a city known
through his product, must submit to sharing the
resultant trade with others who, perhaps for that reason,
locate there later. Canal Co. v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311; Elgin
National Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U.S. 665,
673. He who has made his name a guaranty of quality,
protests in vain when another with the same name
engages, perhaps for that reason, in the same lines of
business; provided, precaution is taken to prevent the
public from being deceived into the belief that what he
is selling was made by his competitor. One bearing a
name made famous by another is permitted to enjoy the
unearned benefit which necessarily flows from such use,
even though the use proves harmful to him who gave
the name value. Brown Chemical Co. v. Meyer, 139 U.S.
540, 544; Howe Scale Co. v. Wyckoff, Seamans &
Benedict, 198 U.S. 118; Donnell v. Herring-Hall-Marvin
Safe Co., 208 U.S. 267; Waterman Co. v. Modern Pen
Co., 235 U.S. 88. See Saxlehner v. Wagner, 216 U.S.
375.
The means by which the International News Service
obtains news gathered by the Associated Press is also
clearly unobjectionable. It is taken from papers bought
in the open market or from bulletins publicly posted.
[248 U.S. 260] No breach of contract such as the court
considered to exist in Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v.
Mitchell, 245 U.S. 229, 254; or of trust such as was
present in Morison v. Moat, 9 Hare, 241; and neither
fraud nor force, is involved. The manner of use is
likewise unobjectionable. No reference is made by word
or by act to the Associated Press, either in transmitting
the news to subscribers or by them in publishing it in
their papers. Neither the International News Service nor
its subscribers is gaining or seeking to gain in its
business a benefit from the reputation of the Associated
Press. They are merely using its product without
making compensation. See Bamforth v. Douglass Post
Card & Machine Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 355; Tribune Co. of
Chicago v. Associated Press, 116 Fed. Rep. 126. That,
they have a legal right to do; because the product is not
property, and they do not stand in any relation to the
Associated Press, either of contract or of trust, which
otherwise precludes such use. The argument is not
advanced by characterizing such taking and use a
misappropriation.
It is also suggested, that the fact that defendant does not
refer to the Associated Press as the source of the news
may furnish a basis for the relief. But the defendant and
its subscribers, unlike members of the Associated Press,
were under no contractual obligation to disclose the
source of the news; and there is no rule of law requiring
acknowledgment to be made where uncopyrighted
matter is reproduced. The International News Service is
said to mislead its subscribers into believing that the
news transmitted was originally gathered by it and that
they in turn mislead their readers. There is, in fact, no
representation by either of any kind. Sources of
information are sometimes given because required by
contract; sometimes because naming the source gives
authority to an otherwise incredible statement; and
sometimes the source is named because the agency does
not wish to take the [248 U.S. 261] responsibility itself of
giving currency to the news. But no representation can
properly be implied from omission to mention the
source of information except that the International
News Service is transmitting news which it believes to
be credible.
Nor is the use made by the International News Service
of the information taken from papers or bulletins of
Associated Press members legally objectionable by
reason of the purpose for which it was employed. The
acts here complained of were not done for the purpose
of injuring the business of the Associated Press. Their
purpose was not even to divert its trade, or to put it at a
disadvantage by lessening defendant's necessary
expenses. The purpose was merely to supply subscribers
of the International News Service promptly with all
available news. The suit is, as this court declares, in
substance one brought for the benefit of the members of
the Associated Press, who would be proper, and except
for their number perhaps necessary, parties; and the
plaintiff conducts the suit as representing their interest.
It thus appears that the protection given by the
injunction is not actually to the business of the
complainant news agency; for this agency does not sell
news nor seek to earn profits, but is a mere
instrumentality by which 800 or more newspapers
collect and distribute news. It is these papers severally
which are protected; and the protection afforded is not
from competition of the defendant, but from possible
competition of one or more of the 400 other papers
which receive the defendant's service. Furthermore, the
protection to these Associated Press members consists
merely in denying to other papers the right to use, as
news, information which, by authority of all concerned,
had theretofore been given to the public by some of
those who joined in gathering it; and to which the law
denies the attributes of property. There is in defendant's
purpose nothing on which to base a claim for relief.
[248 U.S. 262] It is further said that, while that for which
the Associated Press spends its money is too fugitive to
be recognized as property in the common-law courts,
the defendant cannot be heard to say so in a court of
equity, where the question is one of unfair competition.
The case presents no elements of equitable title or of
breach of trust. The only possible reason for resort to a
court of equity in a case like this is that the remedy
which the law gives is inadequate. If the plaintiff has no
legal cause of action, the suit necessarily fails. Levy v.
Walker, L.R. 10 Ch. D. 436, 449. There is nothing in the
situation of the parties which can estop the defendant
from saying so.
Fifth: The great development of agencies now
furnishing country-wide distribution of news, the
vastness of our territory, and improvements in the
means of transmitting intelligence, have made it possible
for a news agency or newspapers to obtain, without
paying compensation, the fruit of another's efforts and
to use news so obtained gainfully in competition with
the original collector. The injustice of such action is
obvious. But to give relief against it would involve more
than the application of existing rules of law to new facts.
It would require the making of a new rule in analogy to
existing ones. The unwritten law possesses capacity for
growth; and has often satisfied new demands for justice
by invoking analogies or by expanding a rule or
principle. This process has been in the main wisely
applied and should not be discontinued. Where the
problem is relatively simple, as it is apt to be when
private interests only are involved, it generally proves
adequate. But with the increasing complexity of society,
the public interest tends to become omnipresent; and
the problems presented by new demands for justice
cease to be simple. Then the creation or recognition by
courts of a new private right may work serious injury to
the general public, unless the [248 U.S. 263] boundaries
of the right are definitely established and wisely
guarded. In order to reconcile the new private right
with the public interest, it may be necessary to prescribe
limitations and rules for its enjoyment; and also to
provide administrative machinery for enforcing the
rules. It is largely for this reason that, in the effort to
meet the many new demands for justice incident to a
rapidly changing civilization, resort to legislation has
latterly been had with increasing frequency.
The rule for which the plaintiff contends would effect
an important extension of property rights and a
corresponding curtailment of the free use of knowledge
and of ideas; and the facts of this case admonish us of the
danger involved in recognizing such a property right in
news, without imposing upon news-gatherers
corresponding obligations. A large majority of the
newspapers and perhaps half the newspaper readers of
the United States are dependent for their news of
general interest upon agencies other than the Associated
Press. The channel through which about 400 of these
papers received, as the plaintiff alleges, "a large amount
of news relating to the European war of the greatest
importance and of intense interest to the newspaper
reading public" was suddenly closed. The closing to the
International News Service of these channels for foreign
news (if they were closed) was due not to unwillingness
on its part to pay the cost of collecting the news, but to
the prohibitions imposed by foreign governments upon
its securing news from their respective countries and
from using cable or telegraph lines running therefrom.
For aught that appears, this prohibition may have been
wholly undeserved; and at all events the 400 papers and
their readers may be assumed to have been innocent.
For aught that appears, the International News Service
may have sought then to secure temporarily by
arrangement with the Associated Press the latter's
foreign news service. For aught that [248 U.S. 264]
appears, all of the 400 subscribers of the International
News Service would gladly have then become members
of the Associated Press, if they could have secured
election thereto.1i It is possible, also, that a large part of
the readers of these papers were so situated that they
could not secure prompt access to papers served by the
Associated Press. The prohibition of the foreign
governments might as well have been extended to the
channels through which news was supplied to the more
than a thousand other daily papers in the United States
not served by the Associated Press; and a large part of
their readers may also be so located that they can not
procure prompt access to papers served by the
Associated Press.
A legislature, urged to enact a law by which one news
agency or newspaper may prevent appropriation of the
fruits of its labors by another, would consider such facts
and possibilities and others which appropriate enquiry
might disclose. Legislators might conclude that it was
impossible to put an end to the obvious injustice
involved in such appropriation of news, without
opening the door to other evils, greater than that sought
to be remedied. Such appears to have been the opinion
of our Senate which reported unfavorably a bill to give
news a few [248 U.S. 265] hours' protection;1j and which
ratified, on February 15, 1911, the convention adopted
at the Fourth International American Conference;2e and
such was evidently the view also of the signatories to the
International Copyright Union of November 13, 1908;3
as both these conventions expressly exclude news from
copyright protection.
[248 U.S. 266] Or legislators dealing with the subject
might conclude, that the right to news values should be
protected to the extent of permitting recovery of
damages for any unauthorized use, but that protection
by injunction should be denied, just as courts of equity
ordinarily refuse (perhaps in the interest of free speech)
to restrain actionable libels,1k and for other reasons
decline to protect by injunction mere political rights;2f
and as Congress has prohibited courts from enjoining
the illegal assessment or collection of federal taxes.3a If a
legislature concluded to recognize property in published
news to the extent of permitting recovery at law, it
might, with a view to making the remedy more certain
and adequate, provide a fixed measure of damages, as in
the case of copyright infringement.4
Or again, a legislature might conclude that it was unwise
to recognize even so limited a property right in
published news as that above indicated; but that a news
agency should, on some conditions, be given full
protection [248 U.S. 267] of its business; and to that end
a remedy by injunction as well as one for damages
should be granted, where news collected by it is
gainfully used without permission. If a legislature
concluded, (as at least one court has held, New York &
Chicago Grain & Stock Exchange v. Board of Trade, 127
Illinois, 153) that under certain circumstances newsgathering
is a business affected with a public interest, it
might declare that, in such cases, news should be
protected against appropriation, only if the gatherer
assumed the obligation of supplying it, at reasonable
rates and without discrimination, to all papers which
applied therefor. If legislators reached that conclusion,
they would probably go further, and prescribe the
conditions under which and the extent to which the
protection should be afforded; and they might also
provide the administrative machinery necessary for
ensuring to the public, the press, and the news agencies,
full enjoyment of the rights so conferred.
Courts are ill-equipped to make the investigations
which should precede a determination of the limitations
which should be set upon any property right in news or
of the circumstances under which news gathered by a
private agency should be deemed affected with a public
interest. Courts would be powerless to prescribe the
detailed regulations essential to full enjoyment of the
rights conferred or to introduce the machinery required
for enforcement of such regulations. Considerations
such as these should lead us to decline to establish a new
rule of law in the effort to redress a newly-disclosed
wrong, although the propriety of some remedy appears
to be clear.