Respondent sued petitioner and the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company in the United States court
for the western district of Kentucky to prevent
interference with the carrying out of a contract between
the railroad company and the respondent. The district
court entered a decree in favor of respondent. The
railroad company declining to join, petitioner alone
appealed. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, 15
F.2d 509, and this Court granted a writ of certiorari. 273
U.S. 690.
Respondent is a Tennessee corporation carrying on a
transfer business at Bowling Green, Kentucky. The
petitioner is a Kentucky corporation in competition
with respondent. The railroad company is a Kentucky
corporation. In 1925, it made a contract with
respondent whereby it granted the exclusive privilege of
going upon its trains, into its depot, and on the
surrounding premises to solicit transportation of
baggage and passengers. And [276 U.S. 523] it assigned a
plot of ground belonging to it for the use of
respondent's taxicabs while awaiting the arrival of
trains. In consideration of the privileges granted,
respondent agreed to render certain service and to make
monthly payments to the railroad company. The term of
the contract was fixed at one year to continue for
consecutive yearly periods until terminated by either
party on thirty days' notice.
Jurisdiction of the district court was invoked on the
ground that the controversy was one between citizens of
different States. The complaint alleges that the railroad
company failed to carry out the contract in that it
allowed others to enter upon its property to solicit
transportation of baggage and passengers and to park on
its property vehicles used for that purpose. It alleges that
petitioner entered, solicited business and parked its
vehicles in the places assigned to respondent, and also
on an adjoining street so as to obstruct the operation of
respondent's taxicabs. Petitioner's answer alleges that
respondent was incorporated in Tennessee for the
fraudulent purpose of giving the district court
jurisdiction and to evade the laws of Kentucky. It asserts
that the contract is contrary to the public policy and
laws of Kentucky as declared by its highest court, and
that it is monopolistic, in excess of the railroad
company's charter power and violates § 214 of the
constitution of the State.
The record shows that, in September, 1925, respondent
was organized in Tennessee by the shareholders of a
Kentucky corporation of the same name then carrying
on a transfer business at Bowling Green and having a
contract with the railroad company like the one here
involved; that the business and property of the
Kentucky corporation were transferred to respondent,
and the former was dissolved. Respondent's
incorporators and railroad representatives, preferring to
have this controversy determined [276 U.S. 524] in the
courts of the United States, arranged to have respondent
organized in Tennessee to succeed to the business of the
Kentucky corporation and to enter into this contract in
order to create a diversity of citizenship. The district
court found there was no fraud upon its jurisdiction,
held the contract valid and found, substantially as
alleged in the complaint, that petitioner violated
respondent's rights under it. The decree enjoins
petitioner from continuing such interference.
1. Section 37 of the Judicial Code requires any suit
commenced in a district court to be dismissed, if it shall
appear that the suit does not really and substantially
involve a dispute or controversy properly within its
jurisdiction or that the parties have been improperly or
collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or
defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable
in such court. The requisite diversity of citizenship
exists. And the controversy is real and substantial. The
privilege granted is valuable. Petitioner treats the
contract as invalid and claims to be entitled, without the
consent of the railroad company to use railroad property
to park its vehicles and solicit business. The railroad
company has failed to protect the rights it granted. The
motives which induced the creation of respondent to
become successor to its Kentucky grantor and take a
transfer of its property have no influence on the validity
of the transactions which are the subject of the suit. The
succession and transfer were actual, not feigned or
merely colorable. In these circumstances, courts will not
inquire into motives when deciding concerning their
jurisdiction. M'Donald v. Smalley et al., 1 Pet. 620, 624.
It is enough that respondent is the real party in interest.
Smith et al. vs. Kernochen, 7 How. 198, 216. The
incorporation of respondent or its title to the business
and contract in question is not impeached. [276 U.S.
525] Cooperation between it and the railroad company
to have the rights of the parties determined by a federal
court was not improper or collusive within the meaning
of § 37. Re Metropolitan Railway Receivership, 208 U.S.
90, 110. Harkin v. Brundage, 276 U.S. 36. South Dakota
v. North Carolina, 192 U.S. 286, 311. It requires no
discussion to distinguish Lehigh Mining and Mfg. Co. v.
Kelly, 160 U.S. 327, and Miller & Lux v. East Side Canal
Co., 211 U.S. 293. The district court had jurisdiction.
2. Petitioner maintains that the contract is not
enforceable because in excess of the railroad company's
power under its charter, and cites the decision of the
Kentucky Court of Appeals in McConnell v. Pedigo, 92
Ky. 465. That case involved a grant by the railroad
company of the exclusive privilege of standing hacks at
the platform of its depot in Glasgow. The court did not
refer to any of the terms of the charter. But petitioner
states that the railroad company was incorporated by an
Act of the Legislature of Kentucky, approved March 4,
1850, and purports to quote the section relating to
corporate powers. "The said Louisville and Nashville
Railroad Company . . . may make all such regulations,
rules and by-laws as are necessary for the government of
the corporation, or for effecting the object for which it
is created: Provided, that such regulations, rules and bylaws
shall not be repugnant to the laws and constitution
of said State or the United States . . . ". The opinion does
not hold or suggest that the contract was contrary to any
provision of the constitution or statutes of Kentucky or
in violation of federal law. The court's conclusion rests
on its determination of a question of general law and
not upon a construction of the charter. Moreover that
court has given this charter a much broader
construction than that insisted on by petitioner. In
Louisville Property Co. v. Commonwealth, 146 Ky.
827,[276 U.S. 526] it held that, "In the maintenance of a
place for hotel or restaurant accommodations, and for
pleasure, recreation and rest, such as is afforded by a
park, neither the letter nor the spirit of the Constitution
or statute is violated, but the railroad company acts in
the exercise of certain implied powers which it is not
prohibited to exercise." So far as concerns the railroad
company's charter authority to make it, the contract is
clearly within the principle of that decision.
3. Section 214 of the Kentucky constitution provides
that no railway company shall make any exclusive or
preferential arrangement for the handling of freight "or
for the conduct of any business as a common carrier."
Petitioner invokes the last clause. The railroad company
is under no obligation to transport passengers or
baggage from its station. McConnell v. Pedigo, supra,
468. It is not bound to permit those engaged in such
transportation to use its property, to solicit patronage,
park their vehicles or otherwise to carry on their
business. The contract does not relate to the railroad
company's business as a common carrier. D.L. & W.R.R.
Co. v. Morristown, 276 U.S. 182.
4. The Court of Appeals of Kentucky held such contracts
invalid in McConnell v. Pedigo, supra, and Palmer
Transfer Co. v. Anderson, 131 Ky. 217. Invalidity of a
similar contract was assumed arguendo in
Commonwealth v. Louisville Transfer Co., 181 Ky. 305.
As reasons for its conclusion that court suggests that the
grant of such privileges prevents competition, makes
such discrimination as is unreasonable and detrimental
to the public and constitutes such a preference over
other transfer men as to give grantee a practical
monopoly of the business. It has not held them
repugnant to any provision of the statutes or
constitution of the State. The question there decided
[276 U.S. 527] is one of general law. Donovan v.
Pennsylvania Company, 199 U.S. 279, 300. This Court
holds such contracts valid. Donovan case, supra, 297.
Morristown case, supra. And these decisions show that,
without its consent, the property of a railroad company
may not be used by taxicabmen or others to solicit or
carry on their business and that it is beyond the power
of the State in the public interest to require the railroad
company without compensation to allow its property so
to be used.
And state courts quite generally construe the common
law as this Court has applied it. Old Colony Railroad Co.
v. Tripp, 147 Mass. 35. Boston & Albany Railroad v.
Brown, 177 Mass. 65. New York, N.H. & H.R. Co. v.
Scovill, 71 Conn. 136, 145. Griswold v. Webb, 16 R.I.
649, 651. New York, N.H. & H.R.R. Co. v. Bork, 23 R.I.
218, 222. Hedding v. Gallagher, 72 N.H. 377. Brown v.
N.Y.C. & H.R.R. Co., 75 Hun. 355, 359. Thompson's
Exp. & Storage Co. v. Whitemore, 88 N.J. Eq. 535.
Norfolk & Western R. Co. v. Old Dominion Baggage
Co., 99 Va. 111. Rose v. Public Service Commission, 75
W.Va. 1, 5. State v. Depot Co., 71 O.S. 379. Railroad v.
Kohler, 107 Kan. 673, 677. Railroad Co. v. Davidson, 33
Utah. 370. Union Depot & Ry. Co. v. Meeking, 42 Colo.
89, 95. Dingman v. Duluth, etc. R. Co., 164 Mich. 328.
Lewis v. Railway Co., 36 Tex. Civ. App. 48, 50. See
Commonwealth v. Power, 7 Metc. 596, 600. Godbout v.
Saint Paul Union Depot Co., 79 Minn. 188, 200.
Napman v. People, 19 Mich. 352, 355. Fluker v. Georgia
Railroad & Banking Co., 81 Ga. 461, 463.
In harmony with the Kentucky decisions, the highest
courts of Indiana and Mississippi hold such contracts
invalid. Indianapolis Union R. Co. v. Dohn, 153 Ind. 10.
State v. Reed, 76 Miss. 211. The same conclusion is
reached in Cravens v. Rodgers, 101 Mo. 247. Montana
Union Ry. Co. v. Langlois, 9 Mont. 419. Hack & Bus Co.
v. Sootsma, 84 Mich. 194.[276 U.S. 528] But in each of
the last three cases the conclusion rests, at least in part,
upon a provision of state statute or constitution.
Arrangements similar in principle to that before us are
sustained in English courts. Perth General Station
Committee v. Ross, L.R. App. Cas. (1897) 479. In re
Beadell, 2 C.B. (N.S.) 509. Barker v. Midland Ry. Co., 18
C.B. 45.
The cases cited show that the decisions of the Kentucky
Court of Appeals holding such arrangements invalid are
contrary to the common law as generally understood
and applied. And we are of opinion that petitioner here
has failed to show any valid ground for disregarding this
contract and that its interference cannot be justified.
Care is to be observed lest the doctrine that a contract is
void as against public policy be unreasonably extended.
Detriment to the public interest is not be presumed in
the absence of showing that something improper is
done or contemplated. Steele v. Drummond, 275 U.S.
199. And it is to be remembered, as stated by Sir George
Jessel, M.R., in Printing Company v. Sampson, L.R. 19
Eq. 462, 465, that public policy requires that competent
persons "shall have the utmost liberty of contracting,
and that their contracts, when entered into fairly and
voluntarily shall be held sacred, and shall be enforced by
Courts of justice." The station grounds belong to the
railroad company and it lawfully may put them into any
use that does not interfere with its duties as a common
carrier. The privilege granted to respondent does not
impair the railroad company's service to the public or
infringe any right of other taxicabmen to transport
passengers to and from the station. While it gives the
respondent advantage in getting business, passengers
are free to engage anyone who may be ready to serve
them. The carrying out of such contracts generally
makes for good order at railway stations, [276 U.S. 529]
prevents annoyance, serves convenience and promotes
safety of passengers. D.L. & W.R.R. Co. v. Morristown,
supra. There is here no complaint by or on behalf of
passengers; no lack of service, unreasonable exaction or
inconvenience of the public is shown. It would be
unwarranted and arbitrary to assume that this contract
is contrary to public interest. The grant of privileges to
respondent creates no duty on the part of the railroad
company to give like privileges to others, and therefore
there is no illegal discrimination. And, as the State is
without power to require any part of the depot ground
to be used as a public hack stand without providing just
compensation therefor, then a fortiori such property
may not be handed over for the use of petitioner
without the consent of the owner.
5. The decree below should be affirmed unless federal
courts are bound by Kentucky decisions which are
directly opposed to this Court's determination of the
principles of common law properly to be applied in such
cases. Petitioner argues that the Kentucky decisions are
persuasive and establish the invalidity of such contracts
and that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in refusing
to follow them. But, as we understand the brief, it does
not contend that, by reason of the rule of decision
declared by § 34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (now R.S. §
721, U.S.C. Tit. 28 § 725), this Court is required to
adopt the Kentucky decisions. But, granting that this
point is before us, it cannot be sustained. The contract
gives respondent, subject to termination on short
notice, license or privilege to solicit patronage and park
its vehicles on railroad property at train time. There is
no question concerning title to land. No provision of
state statute or constitution and no ancient or fixed local
usage is involved. For the discovery of common law
principles applicable in any case, investigation is not
limited to the [276 U.S. 530] decisions of the courts of
the State in which the controversy arises. State and
federal courts go to the same sources for evidence of the
existing applicable rule. The effort of both is to ascertain
that rule. Kentucky has adopted the common law and
her courts recognize that its principles are not local but
are included in the body of law constituting the general
jurisprudence prevailing wherever the common law is
recognized. Hunt v. Warnicke's Heirs, 3 Hardin 61.
Lathrop v. Commercial Bank, 8 Dana 114, 121. Ray v.
Sweeney, 14 Bush 1, 9, et seq. Aetna Insurance Co. v.
Commonwealth, 106 Ky. 864, 876. Nider v.
Commonwealth, 140 Ky. 684, 686. And see 1 Kent's
Commentaries (14th ed.) pp. 451, 602. As respects the
rule of decision to be followed by federal courts,
distinction has always been made between statutes of a
State and the decisions of its courts on questions of
general law. The applicable rule sustained by many
decisions of this Court is that in determining questions
of general law, the federal courts, while inclining to
follow the decisions of the courts of the State in which
the controversy arises, are free to exercise their own
independent judgment. That this case depends on such a
question is clearly shown by many decisions of this
Court. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, 19, was an action an a
bill of exchange. Mr. Justice Story, writing for the
Court, fully expounded § 34 of the Judiciary Act.
Carpenter v. Insurance Company, 16 Pet. 495, 511, held
that the construction of an insurance policy involves
questions of general law. Lane v. Vick, 3 How. 464,
involved the construction of a will. It was said (p. 476):
"This court do not follow the state courts in their
construction of a will or any other instrument, as they
do in the construction of statutes." Foxcroft v. Mallett, 4
How. 353, 379, held that the decision of a state court
construing a deed is not conclusive on this Court.
Chicago City v. Robbins, 2 Bl. 418, 428, declined to
follow the determination of the state court as to what
[276 U.S. 531] constitutes negligence. Yates v.
Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497, 506, held that the
determination of what constitutes a dedication of land
to public use is one of general law. Olcott v. Supervisors,
16 Wall. 678, 689, held that the determination of what is
a public purpose to warrant municipal taxation involves
a question of general law. Railroad Company v.
Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 366, declined to follow the
state rule as to liability of common carriers for injury of
passengers. Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129
U.S. 397, 443, held a question concerning the validity of
a contract for carriage of goods is one of general law.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Baugh, 149 U.S. 368, 370,
so held as to the responsibility of a railroad company to
its employees for personal injuries. Beutler v. Grand
Trunk Railway, 224 U.S. 85, 88, decides who are fellowservants
as a question of general law.
The lower courts followed the well-established rule and
rightly held the contract valid. The facts shown warrant
the injunction granted.
Decree affirmed.