This is a suit brought by the respondent, The Brown
and Yellow Taxicab and Transfer Company, as plaintiff,
to prevent the petitioner, The Black and White Taxicab
and Transfer Company, from interfering with the
carrying out of a contract between the plaintiff and the
other defendant, The Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company. The plaintiff is a corporation of Tennessee. It
had a predecessor of the same name which was a
corporation of Kentucky. Knowing that the Courts of
Kentucky held contracts of the kind in question invalid
and that the Courts of the United States maintained
them as valid, a family that owned the Kentucky
corporation procured the incorporation of the plaintiff
and caused the other to be dissolved after conveying all
the corporate property to the plaintiff. The new
Tennessee corporation then proceeded to make with the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company the contract
above mentioned, by which the Railroad Company gave
to it exclusive privileges in the station grounds, and two
months later the Tennessee corporation brought this
suit. The Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming a decree of
the District Court, granted an injunction and upheld this
contract. It expressly recognized that the decisions of the
Kentucky Courts held that in Kentucky a railroad
company could not grant such rights, but this being a
`question of general law' it went its own way regardless
of the Courts of this State. 15 F.2d 509.
The Circuit Court of Appeals had so considerable a
tradition behind it in deciding as it did that if I did not
regard the case as exceptional I should not feel
warranted in presenting my own convictions again after
having stated them in Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Company,
215 U.S. 349. But the question is important and in my
opinion the prevailing doctrine has been accepted upon
a subtle fallacy [276 U.S. 533] that never has been
analyzed. If I am right the fallacy has resulted in an
unconstitutional assumption of powers by the Courts of
the United States which no lapse of time or respectable
array of opinion should make us hesitate to correct.
Therefore I think it proper to state what I think the
fallacy is. — The often repeated proposition of this and
the lower Courts is that the parties are entitled to an
independent judgment on matters of general law. By
that phrase is meant matters that are not governed by
any law of the United States or by any statute of the
State — matters that in States other than Louisiana are
governed in most respects by what is called the common
law. It is through this phrase that what I think the fallacy
comes in.
Books written about any branch of the common law
treat it as a unit, cite cases from this Court, from the
Circuit Courts of Appeals, from the State Courts, from
England and the Colonies of England indiscriminately,
and criticize them as right or wrong according to the
writer's notions of a single theory. It is very hard to
resist the impression that there is one august corpus, to
understand which clearly is the only task of any Court
concerned. If there were such a transcendental body of
law outside of any particular State but obligatory within
it unless and until changed by statute, the Courts of the
United States might be right in using their independent
judgment as to what it was. But there is no such body of
law. The fallacy and illusion that I think exist consist in
supposing that there is this outside thing to be found.
Law is a word used with different meanings, but law in
the sense in which courts speak of it today does not exist
without some definite authority behind it. The common
law so far as it is enforced in a State, whether called
common law or not, is not the common law generally
but the law of that State existing by the authority of that
State without regard to what it [276 U.S. 534] may have
been in England or anywhere else. It may be adopted by
statute in place of another system previously in force.
Boquillas Cattle Co. v. Curtis, 213 U.S. 339, 345. But a
general adoption of it does not prevent the State Courts
from refusing to follow the English decisions upon a
matter where the local conditions are different. Wear v.
Kansas, 245 U.S. 154, 156, 157. It may be changed by
statute, Baltimore & Ohio R.R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U.S.
368, 378, as is done every day. It may be departed from
deliberately by judicial decisions, as with regard to water
rights, in States where the common law generally
prevails. Louisiana is a living proof that it need not be
adopted at all. (I do not know whether under the
prevailing doctrine we should regard ourselves as
authorities upon the general law of Louisiana superior
to those trained in the system.) Whether and how far
and in what sense a rule shall be adopted whether called
common law or Kentucky law is for the State alone to
decide.
If within the limits of the Constitution a State should
declare one of the disputed rules of general law by
statute there would be no doubt of the duty of all Courts
to bow, whatever their private opinions might be.
Mason v. United States, 260 U.S. 545, 555. Gulf
Refining Co. v. United States, 269 U.S. 125, 137. I see no
reason why it should have less effect when it speaks by
its other voice. See Benedict v. Ratner, 268 U.S. 353,
Sim v. Edenborn, 242 U.S. 131. If a state constitution
should declare that on all matters of general law the
decisions of the highest Court should establish the law
until modified by statute or by a later decision of the
same Court, I do not perceive how it would be possible
for a Court of the United States to refuse to follow what
the State Court decided in that domain. But when the
constitution of a State establishes a Supreme Court it by
implication does make that declaration as clearly as if it
had said it in express words, so [276 U.S. 535] far as it is
not interfered with by the superior power of the United
States. The Supreme Court of a State does something
more than make a scientific inquiry into a fact outside of
and independent of it. It says, with an authority that no
one denies, except when a citizen of another State is able
to invoke an exceptional jurisdiction, that thus the law is
and shall be. Whether it be said to make or to declare
the law, it deals with the law of the State with equal
authority however its function may be described.
Mr. Justice Story in Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 1,
evidently under the tacit domination of the fallacy to
which I have referred, devotes some energy to showing
that § 34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20, refers only
to statutes when it provides that except as excepted the
laws of the several States shall be regarded as rules of
decision in trials at common law in Courts of the United
States. An examination of the original document by a
most competent hand has shown that Mr. Justice Story
probably was wrong if anyone is interested to inquire
what the framers of the instrument meant. 37 Harvard
Law Review, 49, at pp. 81-88. But this question is
deeper than that; it is a question of the authority by
which certain particular acts, here the grant of exclusive
privileges in a railroad station, are governed. In my
opinion the authority and only authority is the State,
and if that be so, the voice adopted by the State as its
own should utter the last word. I should leave Swift v.
Tyson undisturbed, as I indicated in Kuhn v. Fairmont
Coal Co., but I would not allow it to spread the assumed
dominion into new fields.
In view of what I have said it is not necessary for me to
give subordinate and narrower reasons for my opinion
that the decision below should be reversed. But there are
adequate reasons short of what I think should be
recognized. This is a question concerning the lawful use
of land in Kentucky by a corporation chartered by
Kentucky. [276 U.S. 536] The policy of Kentucky with
regard to it has been settled in Kentucky for more than
thirty-five years. McConnell v. Pedigo, 92 Ky. 465.
(1892.) Even under the rule that I combat, it has been
recognized that a settled line of state decisions was
conclusive to establish a rule of property or the public
policy of the State. Hartford Fire Insurance Co. v.
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 175 U.S. 91,
100. I should have supposed that what arrangements
could or could not be made for the use of a piece of land
was a purely local question, on which, if on anything,
the State should have its own way and the State Courts
should be taken to declare what the State wills. See
especially Smith Middlings Purifier Co. v. McGroarty,
136 U.S. 237, 241.