In this diversity case, the Allstate Insurance Company
("Allstate"), as subrogee of Sam Lakhia, appeals from the
district court's dismissal of its claim for property damage
founded on the doctrine of strict liability for a defective
product. There is a disagreement among the
intermediate courts of appeals in Illinois with respect to
the applicable statute of limitations. The United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
decided that it should follow the rule established by the
state intermediate court for the state appellate district in
which the lawsuit would have been brought.
Accordingly, it determined that the present lawsuit had
been filed beyond the time permitted by the statute of
limitations and dismissed the action. Because we believe
that the district court erred in its belief that it was
required to follow the rule of the state intermediate
court of appeals for the state appellate district in which
the suit would have been brought, we reverse its
decision on that issue. Finally, because of the
importance of the question to the jurisprudence of
Illinois, we certify to the Supreme Court of Illinois the
issue of the applicable statute of limitations.
I
BACKGROUND
Prior to December 18, 1994, Sam Lakhia or a member of
his family purchased a torchiere halogen lamp in a
Menards store in Hillsdale, Illinois. The lamp was placed
in the family home in Bellwood, Illinois and situated
along the south wall near the basement stairs for the
purposes of providing ambient light. On December 18,
there was a fire in the Lakhia home that resulted in a
claim by Mr. Lakhia for $144,799.05 for property
damage and related living expenses incurred as a result
of the fire. Allstate, Lakhia's insurer and subrogee, paid
the claim and then brought this action against Menards
on March 10, 1999. The jurisdiction of the district court
was based on the diverse citizenship of the [285 F.3d
632] parties. Menards filed a motion to dismiss on the
ground that the action was barred by the applicable
statute of limitations.
In a hearing before the district court, the parties
disagreed with respect to the applicable statute of
limitations period for a products liability action. In
Allstate's view, the applicable statute of limitations was
five years. It relied upon the decision of the Second
District in American Family Insurance Co. v. Village
Pontiac-GMC, Inc., 182 Ill.App.3d 385, 131 Ill.Dec. 484,
538 N.E.2d 859 (1989). Menards, on the other hand,
submitted that the applicable statute of limitations was
two years. It relied on the decisions of the First District
in McLeish v. Sony Corp. of America, 152 Ill.App.3d
628, 105 Ill.Dec. 648, 504 N.E.2d 933 (1987) and
Calumet Country Club v. Roberts Environmental
Control Corp., 136 Ill.App.3d 610, 91 Ill.Dec. 267, 483
N.E.2d 613 (1985).
In discharging their responsibility to ascertain the
content of state law in diversity cases, the sitting judges
of the Northern District of Illinois have developed two
conflicting approaches when confronted with no
controlling decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois
and with conflicting decisions of the Illinois Appellate
Court. Some judges have followed the standard [285
F.3d 633] practice for a district court sitting in diversity
and have attempted to predict how the Supreme Court
of Illinois would resolve the question. Others have
deemed themselves bound by the prevailing rule of the
state appellate district in which the suit would have been
brought in state court, reasoning that this approach
would prevent forum shopping. The district court in
this case had followed the latter approach in earlier cases
and decided that, in the absence of explicit guidance
from this court, it would not alter its course.
Accordingly, it followed the decisions of the First
District and held that the applicable statute of
limitations was two years and dismissed the action.
II
DISCUSSION
A.
We first address whether the district court was correct
in its decision to consider itself bound by the view of the
state intermediate appellate court with jurisdiction over
the place where the action would be brought in the state
court. Both parties before us, and all of the judges of the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois who have addressed the matter, acknowledge
that the ultimate responsibility of the district courts is to
apply the law of the state in which the court sits with
respect to substantive matters. See Erie R.R. Co. v.
Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64, 78, 58 S.Ct. 817, 82 L.Ed. 1188
(1938). It is further beyond dispute that, as a general
rule, statutes of limitation are considered to be
substantive matters for purposes of the Erie doctrine.
See Guaranty Trust v. York, 326 U.S. 99, 110, 65 S.Ct.
1464, 89 L.Ed. 2079 (1945).
As we have noted already, the district court, relying on
its past practice as well as the practice of some other
judges sitting in this particular district, took the view
that, in the absence of a definite ruling by the Supreme
Court of Illinois and faced with a conflict among the
state's intermediate appellate courts, it was obliged to
follow the rule established by the Illinois Appellate
Court with jurisdiction over the [285 F.3d 634] place
where the suit would have been filed, if it had been filed
in state court. The view of the district court finds
support in several published cases of the Northern
District of Illinois. See, e.g., Abbott Labs. v. Granite
State Ins. Co., 573 F.Supp. 193 (N.D.Ill.1983); Comm'l
Discount Corp. v. King, 552 F.Supp. 841 (N.D.Ill.1982).
As Menards points out in its brief, these cases consider
the main focus of Erie to be a concern that "`for the
same transaction the accident of suit by a nonresident
litigant in a federal court instead of a State court a block
away should not lead to a substantially different result.'"
Abbott Labs., 573 F.Supp. at 197 (quoting Guaranty
Trust, 326 U.S. at 109, 65 S.Ct. 1464). The same theme,
noted the district court in Abbott Laboratories, was
expressed by the Supreme Court in Klaxon v. Stentor
Manufacturing Co., 313 U.S. 487, 496, 61 S.Ct. 1020, 85
L.Ed. 1477 (1941), when the Supreme Court wrote that,
unless state choice of law rules are treated as anything
other than substantive, "the accident of diversity of
citizenship would constantly disturb equal
administration of justice in coordinate state and federal
courts sitting side by side." Klaxon, 313 U.S. at 496, 61
S.Ct. 1020. The rule articulated in Klaxon dealt with a
state's choice of law rules governing when it would
apply its own substantive law and when it would apply
the substantive law of another state. The district court
in Abbott Laboratories maintained, however, that Erie's
concern with the equal administration of justice requires
that the same approach be taken with respect to a state's
"internal choice of law rule that requires the state trial
courts in Illinois to follow the rule of the appellate court
for the district in which it is located." Abbott Labs., 573
F.Supp. at 195. Thus, when "`state law' itself contains a
definitive rule as to the way to ascertain `state law' in
case of intrastate appellate court disputes, we must
follow that first `state law' in order to learn the second
`state law.'" Comm'l Disc. Corp., 552 F.Supp. at 851. In
short, said the district court, the "essential theory" of
Erie is that "`a federal court must decide substantive
questions in diversity cases in the same way that a state
trial judge in the same location would.'" Id. at 847
(quoting Nat'l Can Corp. v. Whittaker Corp., 505
F.Supp. 147, 148 n. 2 (N.D.Ill.1981)).
In assessing this perspective, we believe that the most
appropriate course is to start with Erie itself. There can
be no doubt that, in setting forth the rule that a district
court sitting in diversity must apply the law of the state
in which it sits, the Supreme Court was concerned with
forum shopping. See Erie, 304 U.S. at 74-75, 58 S.Ct.
817. It is necessary, however, to go behind this concern
and to perceive the reasons for the Supreme Court's
concern. Erie is not simply the product of a search for a
salutary rule of judicial administration, but a holding
that the Supreme Court explicitly said was
constitutionally compelled: [285 F.3d 635] "If only a
question of statutory construction were involved, we
should not be prepared to abandon a doctrine so widely
applied throughout nearly a century. But, the
unconstitutionality of the course pursued has now been
made clear, and compels us to do so." Erie, 304 U.S. at
77-78, 58 S.Ct. 817. Noting the federal government's
lack of constitutional authority to create substantive
rules of law, the Supreme Court viewed its holding as
restoring to the state governments the prerogative of
fashioning principles of law in matters beyond the
limited constitutional competence delineated for the
federal government in the Constitution:
Except in matters governed by the Federal Constitution or by acts
of Congress, the law to be applied in any case is the law of the State.
And, whether the law of the State shall be declared by its
Legislature in a statute or by the highest court in a decision is not a
matter of federal concern. There is no general federal common law.
Congress has no power to declare substantive rules of common law
applicable in a State whether they be local in their nature or
"general," be they commercial law or part of the law of torts. And
no clause in the Constitution purports to confer such a power upon
the federal courts.
Id. at 78, 58 S.Ct. 817; see also Bernhardt v. Polygraphic
Co. of Am., 350 U.S. 198, 202, 76 S.Ct. 273, 100 L.Ed.
199 (majority), 208 (Frankfurter, J., concurring) (1956).
To maintain the constitutional line between limited
federal lawmaking power and state residual lawmaking
power, Erie requires that the federal court follow an
analytical path that ensures that the law applied in
federal proceedings is the law that "ultimately would be
applied were the case to be litigated in the state courts."
Roberts v. Western-Southern Life Ins. Co., 568 F.Supp.
536, 539-40 (N.D.Ill.1983) (emphasis in original).
Application of the approach employed by the district
court in this case would not achieve this result because it
would deny the litigant any opportunity to receive a
judicial assessment about what the supreme court of the
state might determine the law to be through a resolution
of conflicting precedent in the lower state appellate
courts. The litigant in an Illinois state court is no doubt
bound by the approach articulated in People v. Thorpe,
52 Ill.App.3d 576, 10 Ill.Dec. 351, 367 N.E.2d 960, 963
(1977), and Garcia v. Hynes & Howes Real Estate, Inc.,
29 Ill.App.3d 479, 331 N.E.2d 634, 636 (1975), and
therefore can expect to be bound in the trial court by the
substantive rule of law articulated by the state appellate
court for the district in which the trial court is located.
Upon rendition of judgment by the trial court, however,
that litigant has the right to appeal to the intermediate
appellate court and to convince that court that the
prevailing rule ought to yield to that embraced by an
appellate court in another district. Absent satisfactory
relief in that court, yet a further attempt may be made to
convince the state's highest tribunal to resolve the
conflict among the districts. For the litigant in federal
court, however, there is no such direct path to the
Supreme Court of Illinois. If the mandate of Erie is to be
satisfied and the law ultimately employed is to be the
law of the state, the federal court, exercising its
authority to hear diversity cases, must make a
predictive judgment as to how the supreme court of the
state would decide the matter if it were presented
presently to that tribunal.
[285 F.3d 636] In many instances, therefore, application
of the rule employed in Abbott Laboratories would
result in the precedent of the state intermediate
appellate court being given more effect in federal court
than it would receive in the state judicial system. Under
the rationale of that case, both the district court and this
court would be bound by the precedent of the state
intermediate appellate court. If the case were brought in
the state system, however, that court would be free to
reevaluate its own precedent and determine that, despite
the usual constraints of stare decisis and precedent, that
decision ought not stand. See Geri J. Yonover,
Ascertaining State Law: The Continuing Erie Dilemma,
38 DePaul L.Rev. 1, 33 (1988).
Although the Supreme Court of the United States has
not had to confront the precise issue before us today, its
decisions make it clear that the Court views the Erie
doctrine as imposing on federal courts the responsibility
to determine the content of state law at the state, not the
local, level. Erie itself appears to have contemplated that
the duty of the federal court, sitting in diversity, is to
determine the content of state law as the highest court
of the state would interpret it. See Erie, 304 U.S. at 78,
80, 58 S.Ct. 817; see also Wichita Royalty Co. v. City
Nat'l Bank, 306 U.S. 103, 59 S.Ct. 420, 83 L.Ed. 515
(1938). In Bernhardt, the Court also focused on the
clarity of the entire state's decisional law in ascertaining
the content of state law. See Bernhardt, 350 U.S. at 205,
76 S.Ct. 273. Most recently, and perhaps most pointedly,
in holding that federal courts of appeals must review de
novo the district court's determination of the content of
state law, the Supreme Court noted that deferential
review invites "divergent development of state law
among the federal trial courts even within a single
state." Salve Regina College v. Russell, 499 U.S. 225,
234, 111 S.Ct. 1217, 113 L.Ed.2d 190 (1991).
Finally, we do not think that the Supreme Court's
decision in Klaxon is of any help to Menards. A fair
reading of Klaxon makes clear that its focus is on
ensuring that, in determining whether to apply the
substantive law of the state in which it sits or the
substantive law of another state, a district court should
follow the choice of law rules of the forum state to
ensure that the replacement of one state's law by
another is based on a state policy decision and not a
federal one. As the Court stated:
Any other ruling would do violence to the principle of uniformity
within a state, upon which the Tompkins decision is based.
Whatever lack of uniformity this may produce between federal
courts in different states is attributable to our federal system, which
leaves to a state, within the limits permitted by the Constitution,
the right to pursue local policies diverging from those of its
neighbors. It is not for the federal courts to thwart such local
policies by enforcing an independent "general law" of conflict of
laws. Subject only to review by this Court on any federal question
that may arise, Delaware is free to determine whether a given
matter is to be governed by the law of the forum or some other law.
Klaxon, 313 U.S. at 496-97, 61 S.Ct. 1020.
As one scholar has written:
All that was decided in Klaxon was that the federal court in
Delaware should [285 F.3d 637] follow the conflict of laws rules
prevailing in the state in which it sits. The conflict of laws rules
contemplated by Klaxon are those rules, whether they be traditional
First Restatement of conflict of Laws method or one of the more
modern approaches, which would direct the forum jurisdiction to
apply the law of another jurisdiction. The intrastate precedential
effect of intermediate state court decisions on state courts as
exemplified by Thorpe/Garcia is an apple, or better yet an
asparagus, compared to Klaxon's orange!
Yonover, supra at 35.
Although we believe that the task of the federal court
sitting in diversity is to ascertain the substantive content
of state law as it either has been determined by the
highest court of the state or as it would be by that court
if the present case were before it now, we pause to
emphasize that this determination in no way implies any
erosion of our precedent that, in the absence of
prevailing authority from the state's highest court,
federal courts ought to give great weight to the holdings
of the state's intermediate appellate courts and ought to
deviate from those holdings only when there are
persuasive indications that the highest court of the state
would decide the case differently from the decision of
the intermediate appellate court. See State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co. v. Pate, 275 F.3d 666, 669 (7th Cir.2001);
Lexington Ins. Co. v. Rugg & Knopp, Inc., 165 F.3d
1087, 1090 (7th Cir.1999); Allen v. Transamerica Ins.
Co., 128 F.3d 462, 466 (7th Cir.1997). See generally E.
Chemerinsky, Federal Jurisdiction § 5.3 at 323-26 (3d
ed.1999) (discussing Supreme Court authorities);
Yonover, supra at 5 n. 21. As the Supreme Court has
held, "[w]here an intermediate appellate state court rests
its considered judgment upon the rule of which it
announces, that is a datum for ascertaining state law
which is not to be disregarded by a federal court unless
it is convinced by other persuasive data that the highest
court of the state would decide otherwise." West v. Am.
Tel. & Tel. Co., 311 U.S. 223, 237, 61 S.Ct. 179, 85 L.Ed.
139 (1940).
In sum, we adhere today to the general rule, articulated
and applied throughout the United States, that, in
determining the content of state law, the federal courts
must assume the perspective of the highest court in that
state and attempt to ascertain the governing substantive
law on the point in question. See Allen, 128 F.3d at 466-
67. See generally 19 Charles Alan Wright, Arthur R.
Miller & Edward H. Cooper, Federal Practice and
Procedure: Jurisdiction 2d § 4507 at 157-61.
B.
As we have noted earlier, federal courts have, under
Article III, the authority and, indeed, the duty to
ascertain the content of state substantive law when
called upon to do so in the exercise of the diversity
jurisdiction of the federal courts. Exercising this
responsibility is no easy task. As one jurist-author has
noted, "[f]inding the applicable state law ... is a search
that often proves elusive." Moreover, although often
[285 F.3d 638] lost in the debate about the continued
importance of diversity jurisdiction in our constitutional
scheme — a debate that usually focuses on the number of
cases involved — there is a significant impact on the
health of our federalism as federal courts interpret, with
increasing frequency, issues of state law. As the same
author pointed out, there is some evidence that federal
courts are not the best prognosticators of the future
course of state doctrinal issues. Unless and until
corrected, these missteps by federal courts can have a
grave impact on the principled and orderly growth of
state law principles. These decisions "inevitably skew
the decisions of persons and businesses that rely on
them and inequitably affect the losing federal litigant
who cannot appeal the decision to the state supreme
court; they may even mislead lower state courts that
may be inclined to accept federal predictions as
applicable precedent." It may be that, in the process of
ascertaining the content of state law, federal judges
make, on occasion, significant contributions to the
growth of state jurisprudence. Yet, the potential for
significant intrusion, sometimes with disastrous results,
counsels that the task be undertaken with great care,
thoroughness and a full realization of the impact that the
process, even when executed adroitly, has on "Our
Federalism." See Younger v. Harris, 401 U.S. 37, 44, 91
S.Ct. 746, 27 L.Ed.2d 669 (1971).
Certification of a controlling issue of state law to the
highest court of the state is one method of reducing the
possibility of error in making an "Erie guess." Many
states have now enacted, through their state
constitutions, statutes, or rules of court, specific
provisions that permit a federal appellate court, and
sometimes a federal district court, to seek such
guidance. In this circuit we are the fortunate recipients
of this option by all three states within the circuit. See
Ind. R.App. P. 64; Ill. S.Ct. Rule 20; Wisc. Stat. ch.
821.01. However, as we pointed out recently in Pate,
although certification is a "useful tool of cooperative
federalism," Pate, 275 F.3d at 671, because it permits the
federal court to obtain a definitive ruling on the content
of state law, see City of Houston v. Hill, 482 U.S. 451,
470, 107 S.Ct. 2502, 96 L.Ed.2d 398 (1987), the use of
the procedure is "not without its costs to the litigants
and to the state court which already must contend with
a crowded docket of its own." Pate, 275 F.3d at 671.
Consequently, we wrote, "a respect for the burdens of
our colleagues on the state bench and concern for the
litigants before us counsel that we approach the decision
to certify with circumspection." Id. We then set out a
series of factors that federal courts ought to consider
before deciding to certify an uncertain question of state
law. See id. at 672-73. First, we said that the federal
court ought to weigh the degree of uncertainty that
exists on the state law issue. See id. We noted that, in
the past, our cases have directed that a court also
consider whether the issue presents a matter of public
concern, whether the issue is likely to recur, whether
the issue is outcome determinative, and whether the
state supreme court has had an opportunity to [285 F.3d
639] address the issue in other cases. See id. at 672. We
must also consider whether the supreme court of the
state would consider the issue an important one in the
growth of the state's jurisprudence and whether
resolution of the issue definitively will benefit future
litigants or will almost exclusively affect the citizens of
the state. See Pate, 275 F.3d at 672. Notably, we also
said that, in determining whether an intrusion on the
time of our colleagues on the state court is justifiable, we
shall be more inclined to certify the question when the
intermediate courts of the state are in disagreement on
the issue or the issue is one of first impression for the
court of last resort. See id. On the other hand, we have
said that fact specific issues, as well as issues upon which
there is no serious doubt or that are not dispositive of
the case, are not candidates for certification. See id.
After giving the matter considerable study, we believe
that the present case justifies certification to the
Supreme Court of Illinois. Statutes of limitations reflect
significant policy choices by the state and have grave
consequences for the administration of justice within
the state. Certainly, our colleagues on the Supreme
Court of Illinois are far more familiar with the policy
choices that have been made, and have far more direct
responsibility for the administration of justice within
the state than do the members of this court. Moreover,
as we have noted earlier, the intermediate appellate
courts in the state are in disagreement about the
applicable statute of limitations. The intrusion of
unguided federal precedent into the situation will only
serve to destabilize further the state of Illinois
jurisprudence on this issue and make it more difficult
for members of the Illinois bar to counsel their clients
accurately. The issue is, moreover, a recurring one and
is likely to arise with significant frequency both in state
and federal forums. To this date, moreover, it appears
that the Supreme Court of Illinois has not had an
opportunity to address the question squarely. Before
deciding to certify this issue, we asked counsel to
confirm that none of the intermediate court decisions
on this issue have been presented to the Supreme Court
of Illinois.
Conclusion
Accordingly, pursuant to Circuit Rule 52 and Rule 20 of
the Supreme Court of Illinois, having determined that
there is no controlling precedent from the Supreme
Court of Illinois on an issue that may be determinative
of this litigation, we respectfully certify the following
question:
What is the applicable statute of limitations in Illinois for an action
for damage to property based on the doctrine of strict liability in
tort when that action is brought within the applicable statute of
repose?
QUESTION CERTIFIED.