Petitioner brought this action in the District Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Indiana,
Fort Wayne Division, to recover for injuries which he
sustained on November 29, 1930, in the course of his
employment by respondent, an interstate carrier, in its
yard [291 U.S. 208] at Russell, Kentucky. In his
complaint he set forth two "paragraphs" or counts, both
being for the same injuries. In the first paragraph,
petitioner alleged that at the time of the injuries he was
employed in interstate commerce and that he brought
the action under the Acts of Congress known as the
Federal Employers' Liability Act1 and the Safety
Appliance Acts,2 and the rules and orders which the
Interstate Commerce Commission had promulgated
under the latter.3 In the second paragraph, he alleged
that at the time of the injuries he was employed in
intrastate commerce and he invoked the Safety
Appliance Acts enacted by the Congress, and the rules
and orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission
thereunder, and the Employers' Liability Act of
Kentucky. The provisions of the laws of Kentucky
which were alleged to govern the rights of the parties at
the time and place in question were set forth.4 In each
count petitioner stated that the injuries were received
while he was engaged as a switchman in attempting to
uncouple certain freight cars and were due to a defective
uncoupling lever.
Objections to the jurisdiction of the District Court as to
each count were raised by plea in abatement. They were
overruled and petitioner had a general verdict. The
judgment, entered accordingly, was reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals upon the ground that the
District Court was without jurisdiction to entertain the
case upon [291 U.S. 209] either count. 64 F.2d 472. This
Court granted certiorari.
Distinct questions are presented with respect to each
count and they will be considered separately.
First. By the first paragraph, the jurisdiction of the
Federal court was rested upon the sole ground that the
injury had been sustained during petitioner's
employment in interstate commerce and that the cause
of action arose under the pertinent Federal legislation.
To support the jurisdiction of the District Court for the
Northern District of Indiana, the complaint alleged that
respondent was engaged in business in that district at
the time of the commencement of the action.
Respondent's challenge to the jurisdiction was upon the
grounds (1) that at the time of the injuries petitioner
was not employed in interstate commerce and hence the
action would not lie under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, and (2) that respondent was a corporation
organized under the laws of Virginia and an inhabitant
of the Eastern District of Virginia, and hence, so far as
the action rested upon the Safety Appliance Acts of
Congress, and the rules and orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, it could not be brought in a
Federal court in any district other than the Eastern
District of Virginia. Jud. Code, § 51; 28 U.S.C. § 112.
Petitioner's demurrer to the plea in abatement as to the
first cause of action was sustained by the trial court.
That court pointed out that the plea did not deny that
respondent was doing business within the Northern
District of Indiana and that the pleading, in substance,
went to the merits. The Circuit Court of Appeals took a
different view, holding that so far as petitioner relied
upon a violation of the Safety Appliance Acts, the action
must be brought in the district of respondent's
residence. In reversing the judgment, the Circuit Court
of Appeals remanded [291 U.S. 210] the cause with
instructions to grant permission to petitioner to amend
his first paragraph to conform exclusively to the theory
of a violation of the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
This ruling of the appellate court cannot be sustained.
The jurisdiction of the District Court is to be
determined by the allegations of the complaint. Mosher
v. Phoenix, 287 U.S. 29, 30; Levering & Garrigues Co. v.
Morrin, 289 U.S. 103, 105. These allegations clearly set
forth, in the first paragraph, a cause of action under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act. Every essential
ingredient of such a cause of action was appropriately
alleged. The Federal Employers' Liability Act expressly
recognized that in an action brought under its
provisions the question of a violation of the Safety
Appliance Acts might be presented and determined.
This is the unmistakable effect of the provisions that, in
such an action, the employee shall not be held "to have
been guilty of contributory negligence," or "to have
assumed the risks of his employment" in any case
"where the violation by such common carrier of any
statute enacted for the safety of employees contributed
to the injury or death of such employee." Act of April
22, 1908, §§ 3, 4, 45 U.S.C. §§ 53, 54. By the phrase "any
statute enacted for the safety of employees" the Congress
evidently intended to embrace its Safety Appliance Acts.
Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Horton, 233 U.S. 492, 503.
This Court has said that the statutes are in pari materia
and that "where the Employers' Liability Act refers to
`any defect or insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its
cars, engines, appliances,' etc., it clearly is the legislative
intent to treat a violation of the Safety Appliance Act as
`negligence' — what is sometimes called negligence per
se." San Antonio & Aransas Pass Ry. Co. v. Wagner, 241
U.S. 476, 484. Where an employee of an interstate
carrier sustains injuries while employed in the interstate
commerce of the carrier, his action [291 U.S. 211] may
thus be brought under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act in connection with the Safety Appliance Acts.5
Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act an action
may be brought "in a District Court of the United States,
in the district of the residence of the defendant, or in
which the cause of action arose, or in which the
defendant shall be doing business at the time of
commencing such action." 45 U.S.C. § 56. It follows
that, upon the allegations of the complaint, the action
on the claim set forth in the first paragraph was properly
brought in the District Court for the Northern District
of Indiana where respondent was doing business when
the action was begun.
Second. In the second paragraph of the complaint,
which treated the injuries as received in intrastate
commerce, diversity of citizenship was alleged; that
petitioner was a citizen of Indiana, and a resident of the
city of Fort Wayne in that State, and that respondent
was a citizen of Virginia doing business in Indiana. The
plea in abatement, admitting respondent's citizenship in
Virginia, denied that petitioner was a resident of Fort
Wayne or of the Northern District of Indiana, or was a
citizen of that State, and alleged that as the cause of
action set forth in the second paragraph arose under the
Federal Safety Appliance Acts, the action could not be
brought [291 U.S. 212] in any district other than the
Eastern District of Virginia. The District Court took
evidence on the issue of fact, found that the petitioner
was a citizen of Indiana and a resident of Fort Wayne,
and overruled the plea. The Circuit Court of Appeals
held that the District Court of the Northern District of
Indiana was without jurisdiction, in the view that the
second count attempted to set forth a cause of action
"under the Federal Safety Appliance Act as well as under
the statutes of Kentucky" and hence that jurisdiction did
not rest solely on diversity of citizenship. Jud. Code, §
51, 28 U.S.C. § 112. In remanding the cause, the Circuit
Court of Appeals directed that petitioner be allowed to
amend the second paragraph of his complaint so as to
conform exclusively to the theory of a violation of the
Kentucky statute.
While invoking, in the second count, the Safety
Appliance Acts, petitioner fully set forth and relied upon
the laws of the State of Kentucky where the cause of
action arose. In relation to injuries received in that State
in intrastate commerce, aside from the particular
bearing of the Federal Safety Appliance Acts, the liability
of respondent was determined by the laws of Kentucky.
Slater v. Mexican National R. Co., 194 U.S. 120, 126;
Cuba R. Co. v. Crosby, 222 U.S. 473, 478; Young v.
Masci, 289 U.S. 253, 258; Ormsby v. Chase, 290 U.S.
387. The statute of Kentucky, in prescribing the liability
of common carriers for negligence causing injuries to
employees while engaged in intrastate commerce,
reproduced in substance, and with almost literal
exactness, the corresponding provisions of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act as to injuries received in
interstate commerce. Ky. Acts, 1918, c. 52, §§ 1-3, p.
153; Carroll's Ky. Statutes, 1930, §§ 820 b-1, 820 b-2,
820 b-3. The Kentucky Act provided that no employee
should be held "to have been guilty of contributory
negligence" or "to have assumed the risk of his
employment" in any case "where the violation by [291
U.S. 213] such common carrier of any statute, state or
federal, enacted for the safety of employees contributed
to the injury or death of such employee." Id. The
Kentucky legislature read into its statute the provisions
of statutes both state and federal which were enacted for
the safety of employees, and the Federal Safety
Appliance Acts were manifestly embraced in this
description. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Layton, 243
U.S. 617, 619. Thus, the second count of the complaint,
in invoking the Federal Safety Appliance Acts, while
declaring on the Kentucky Employers' Liability Act,
cannot be regarded as setting up a claim which lay
outside the purview of the state statute. As in the
analogous case under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, a violation of the acts for the safety of employees
was to constitute negligence per se in applying the state
statute and was to furnish the ground for precluding the
defense of contributory negligence as well as that of
assumption of risk.
The Circuit Court of Appeals took the view that if it
were assumed that the second count was based
exclusively upon the Kentucky statute, that statute and
the federal requirements could not be considered as
being in pari materia because the latter applied only to
interstate commerce, and that, if the petitioner were
permitted to establish the negligence required by the
state statute by showing the violation of the federal
requirements the court would thereby be placed "in the
anomalous position of extending the benefits of the
Safety Appliance Act to intrastate commerce."
This is an erroneous view. The original Safety
Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531, did not
embrace all cars on the lines of interstate carriers but
only those engaged in interstate commerce. Brinkmeier
v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 224 U.S. 268. By the
amending Act of March 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 943, the scope
of the statute was enlarged so as to include all cars "used
on any railroad [291 U.S. 214] engaged in interstate
commerce." The statute as amended was intended to
embrace all locomotives, cars, and similar vehicles used
on any railroad which is a highway of interstate
commerce. Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U.S.
20. With respect to such vehicles, the duty to protect
employees by the prescribed safety appliances exists
even though the vehicles and the employee injured
through the failure to provide such protection are at the
time engaged in intrastate commerce. Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U.S. 33; Louisville & Nashville R.
Co. v. Layton, supra. The Federal Act in its application
to such a case is thus in pari materia with the statute of
Kentucky which prescribes the liability of carriers for
injuries to employees while employed in intrastate
commerce and which, in effect, reads into the provisions
of the statute the requirements of the Federal Act for the
safety of employees. There appears to be no anomaly in
enforcing the state law with this defined content.
The Federal Safety Appliance Acts prescribed duties,
and injured employees are entitled to recover for
injuries sustained through the breach of these duties.
Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U.S. 1; St. Louis,
I.M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U.S. 281; Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, supra. Questions arising in
actions in state courts to recover for injuries sustained
by employees in intrastate commerce and relating to the
scope or construction of the Federal Safety Appliance
Acts are, of course, federal questions which may
appropriately be reviewed in this Court. St. Louis, I.M.
& S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, supra; Louisville & Nashville R.
Co. v. Layton, supra. But it does not follow that a suit
brought under the state statute which defines liability to
employees who are injured while engaged in intrastate
commerce, and brings within the purview of the statute
a breach of the duty imposed by the federal statute,
should be regarded as a suit arising under the laws of the
United States and cognizable in the [291 U.S. 215] federal
court in the absence of diversity of citizenship. The
Federal Safety Appliance Acts, while prescribing
absolute duties, and thus creating correlative rights in
favor of injured employees, did not attempt to lay down
rules governing actions for enforcing these rights. The
original Act of 1893 made no provision for suits, except
for penalties. That Act did impliedly recognize the
employee's right of action by providing in § 8 that he
should not be deemed to have assumed the risk of injury
occasioned by the breach of duty. But the Act made no
provision as to the place of suit or the time within
which it should be brought, or as to the right to recover,
or as to those who should be the beneficiaries of
recovery, in case of the death of the employee. While
dealing with assumption of risk, the statute did not
affect the defense of contributory negligence and hence
that defense was still available according to the
applicable state law. Schlemmer v. Buffalo, R. & P. Ry.
Co., 220 U.S. 590; Minneapolis, St. P. & S.S.M. Ry. Co.
v. Popplar, 237 U.S. 369, 371, 372. In these respects the
amended Act of 1903 made no change, notwithstanding
the enlargement of the scope of the statutory
requirements. The Act of 1910, by a proviso in § 4
relating to penalties (36 Stat. 299), provided that
nothing in that section should "be construed to relieve
such carrier from liability in any remedial action for the
death or injury of any railroad employee" caused by the
use of the prohibited equipment.
The Safety Appliance Acts having prescribed the duty in
this fashion, the right to recover damages sustained by
the injured employee through the breach of duty sprang
from the principle of the common law (Texas & Pacific
R. Co. v. Rigsby, supra, at pp. 39, 406 ) and was left to be
enforced accordingly, or, in case of the death of [291 U.S.
216] the injured employee, according to the applicable
statute.7 St. Louis, I.M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, supra, at
p. 285; Minneapolis, St. P. & S.S.M. Ry. Co. v. Popplar,
supra. When the Federal Employers' Liability Act was
enacted, it drew to itself the right of action for injuries
or death of the employees within its purview who were
engaged in interstate commerce, including those cases in
which injuries were due to a violation of the Safety
Appliance Acts. Such an action must be brought as
prescribed in the Federal Employers' Liability Act, and if
brought in the state court, it cannot be removed to the
federal court, although violation of the Safety Appliance
Acts is involved. See St. Joseph & G.I. Ry. Co. v. Moore,
243 U.S. 311. With respect to injuries sustained in
intrastate commerce, nothing in the Safety Appliance
Acts precluded the State from incorporating in its
legislation applicable to local transportation the
paramount duty which the Safety Appliance Acts
imposed as to the equipment of cars used on interstate
railroads. As this Court said in Minneapolis, St. P. &
S.S.M. Ry. Co. v. Popplar, supra, as to an action for
injuries sustained in intrastate commerce: "The action
fell within the familiar category of cases involving the
duty of a master to his servant. This duty is defined by
the common law, except as it may be modified by
legislation. The federal statute, in the present case,
touched the duty of the master at a single point and, save
as provided in the statute, the right of the [291 U.S. 217]
plaintiff to recover was left to be determined by the law
of the State."
We are of the opinion that the second paragraph of the
complaint set forth a cause of action under the Kentucky
statute and, as to this cause of action, the suit is not to be
regarded as one arising under the laws of the United
States. In view of the diversity of citizenship and the
residence of petitioner, the District Court of the
Northern District of Indiana had jurisdiction.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals did not consider any
questions save those relating to the jurisdiction of the
District Court, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals will be reversed and the cause remanded to that
court with directions to consider such other questions as
may be presented by the appeal.
Reversed.