This was an action in a federal court in New York to
recover damages for personal injuries allegedly sustained
by the plaintiff through the defendant's negligence. The
issues were tried before the court and a jury. At the
conclusion of the evidence the defendant moved for a
dismissal of the complaint because the evidence was
insufficient to support a verdict for the plaintiff, and also
moved for a directed verdict in its favor on the same
ground. The court reserved its decision on both
motions, submitted the case to the jury subject to its
opinion on the questions reserved, and received from
the jury a verdict for the plaintiff. No objection was
made to the reservation or this mode of proceeding.
Thereafter the court held the evidence sufficient and the
motions ill-grounded, and accordingly entered a
judgment for the plaintiff on the verdict.
The defendant appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which held the evidence insufficient and reversed the
judgment with a direction for a new trial. The
defendant urged that the direction be for a dismissal of
the complaint. But the court of appeals ruled that under
our decision in Slocum v. New York Life Insurance Co.
the direction must be for a new trial. We granted a
petition by the defendant for certiorari because of the
last ruling and at the same time denied a petition by the
plaintiff challenging the ruling on the insufficiency of
the evidence.
The Seventh Amendment to the Constitution
prescribes:
"In suits at common law, where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury [295
U.S. 657] shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury
shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of the
United States, than according to the rules of the
common law."
The right of trial by jury thus preserved is the right
which existed under the English common law when the
Amendment was adopted. The Amendment not only
preserves that right but discloses a studied purpose to
protect it from indirect impairment through possible
enlargements of the power of reexamination existing
under the common law, and to that end declares that
"no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in
any court of the United States than according to the
rules of the common law."
The aim of the Amendment, as this Court has held, is to
preserve the substance of the common-law right of trial
by jury, as distinguished from mere matters of form or
procedure, and particularly to retain the common-law
distinction between the province of the court and that of
the jury, whereby, in the absence of express or implied
consent to the contrary, issues of law are to be resolved
by the court and issues of fact are to be determined by
the jury under appropriate instructions by the court.
In Slocum v. New York Life Insurance Co. a jury trial in
a federal court resulted in a general verdict for the
plaintiff over the defendant's request that a verdict for it
be directed. Judgment was entered on the verdict for the
plaintiff and the defendant obtained a review in the
court of appeals. That court examined the evidence,
concluded that it was insufficient to support the verdict,
and on that basis reversed the judgment given to the
plaintiff on the verdict, and directed that judgment be
entered for the defendant. A writ of certiorari then
brought the case here. The question presented to us was
whether, in the [295 U.S. 658] situation disclosed, the
direction for a judgment for the defendant was an
infraction of the Seventh Amendment. We held it was
and that the direction should be for a new trial.
It therefore is important to have in mind the situation to
which our ruling applied. In that case the defendant's
request for a directed verdict was denied without any
reservation of the question of the sufficiency of the
evidence or of any other matter; and the verdict for the
plaintiff was taken unconditionally, and not subject to
the court's opinion on the sufficiency of the evidence. A
statute of the State wherein the case was tried made
provision for reserving questions of law arising on a
request for a directed verdict, but no reservation was
made. The same statute also provided that where a
request for a directed verdict was denied the party
making the request could have the evidence made part
of the record and that, where this was done, the trial
court, as also the appellate court, should be under a duty
"to enter such judgment as shall be warranted by the
evidence." It was in conformity with this part of the
statute that the court of appeals directed a judgment for
the defendant.
We recognized that the state statute was applicable to
trials in the federal courts in so far as its application
would not effect an infraction of the Seventh
Amendment, but held that there had been an infraction
in that case in that under the pertinent rules of the
common law the court of appeals could set aside the
verdict for error of law, such as the trial court's ruling
respecting the sufficiency of the evidence, and direct a
new trial, but could not itself determine the issues of fact
and direct a judgment for the defendant, for this would
cut off the plaintiff's unwaived right to have the issues of
fact determined by a jury.
A very different situation is disclosed in the present case.
The trial court expressly reserved its ruling on the [295
U.S. 659] defendant's motions to dismiss and for a
directed verdict, both of which were based on the
asserted insufficiency of the evidence to support a
verdict for the plaintiff. Whether the evidence was
sufficient or otherwise was a question of law to be
resolved by the court. The verdict for the plaintiff was
taken pending the court's rulings on the motions and
subject to those rulings. No objection was made to the
reservation or this mode of proceeding, and they must
be regarded as having the tacit consent of the parties.
After the verdict was given the court considered the
motions pursuant to the reservation, held the evidence
sufficient, and denied the motions.
The court of appeals held that the evidence was
insufficient to support the verdict for the plaintiff; that
the defendant's motion for a directed verdict was
accordingly well taken; and therefore that the judgment
for the plaintiff should be reversed. Thus far we think its
decision was right. The remaining question relates to
the direction which properly should be included in the
judgment of reversal.
At common law there was a well established practice of
reserving questions of law arising during trials by jury
and of taking verdicts subject to the ultimate ruling on
the questions reserved; and under this practice the
reservation carried with it authority to make such
ultimate disposition of the case as might be made
essential by the ruling under the reservation, such as
non-suiting the plaintiff where he had obtained a
verdict, entering a verdict or judgment for one party
where the jury had given a verdict to the other, or
making other essential adjustments.
[295 U.S. 660] Fragmentary references to the origin and
basis of the practice indicate that it came to be supported
on the theory that it gave better opportunity for
considered rulings, made new trials less frequent, and
commanded such general approval that parties litigant
assented to its application as a matter of course. But
whatever may have been its origin or theoretical basis, it
undoubtedly was well established when the Seventh
Amendment was adopted, and therefore must be
regarded as a part of the common-law rules to which
resort must be had in testing and measuring the right of
trial by jury as preserved and protected by that
Amendment.
This Court has distinctly recognized that a federal court
may take a verdict subject to the opinion of the court on
a question of law, and in one case where a verdict for
the [295 U.S. 661] plaintiff was thus taken has reversed
the judgment given on the verdict and directed a
judgment for the defendant.
Some of the States have statutes embodying the chief
features of the common-law practice which we have
described. The State of New York, in which the trial was
had, has such a statute; and the trial court, in reserving
its decision on the motions which presented the
question of the sufficiency of the evidence, and in taking
the verdict of the jury subject to its opinion on that
question, conformed to that statute and the practice
under it as approved by the Court of Appeals of the
State.
In view of the common-law practice and the related
state statute, we reach the conclusion that the judgment
of reversal for the error in denying the motions should
embody a direction for a judgment of dismissal on the
merits, and not for a new trial. Such a judgment of
dismissal will be the equivalent of a judgment for the
defendant on a verdict directed in its favor.
The court of appeals regarded the decision in Slocum v.
New York Life Insurance Co. as requiring that the
direction be for a new trial. We already have pointed
out the differences between that case and this. But it is
true that some parts of the opinion in that case give
color to the interpretation put on it by the court of
appeals. In this they go beyond the case then under
consideration and are not controlling. Not only so, but
they must be regarded as qualified by what is said in this
opinion.
It results that the judgment of the court of appeals
should be modified by substituting a direction for a
judgment of dismissal on the merits in place of the
direction for a new trial, and, as so modified, should be
affirmed.
Judgment modified and affirmed as modified.