Plaintiff seeks a declaration that its employment
contract with defendant is void under the regulations
promulgated by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board
pursuant to section 1464 of Title 12, United States Code,
and alleges that this court has jurisdiction under section
1331 of Title 28. Defendant has moved to dismiss for
lack of jurisdiction over the subject matter and has
counterclaimed for damages for breach of the
employment contract which plaintiff alleges in its
Complaint to be void under federal law.
This court is presented with a situation where a plaintiff
seeks a declaration that he is immune, because of a
federal right, from a non-federal cause of action which
the defendant may have (and which he has asserted by
Counter-claim). In such a situation, there are two
possible views. See 1 Barron & Holtzoff (Wright),
Federal Practice and Procedure, sec. 39, pp. 209-211;
Note, Federal Question Jurisdiction and the Declaratory
Judgment Act, 55 Ky.L.J. 150. These two views stem
from the well-established rule that the existence of a
federal question must appear on the face of the plaintiff's
well-pleaded complaint, and that it cannot be dependent
on anticipation of defenses which the defendant may
later assert. The two views are stated in Barron &
Holtzoff, supra at 209:
"There are two possible applications of this rule to declaratory
judgment actions. The complaint in such an action may be judged
on its own merits; if it reveals a federal claim, then jurisdiction will
exist. But this, as will be seen, would permit some cases to be
brought in federal court which could not be so brought absent the
Declaratory Judgment Act. The alternative is to say that the
declaratory action may be entertained in federal court only if the
coercive action which would have been brought, absent declaratory
judgment procedure, might have been so brought."
Under the first view, this court would have subject
matter jurisdiction in the instant case. But under the
second view, this court would have no jurisdiction.
It is axiomatic that the Declaratory Judgment Act cannot
be used to give relief indirectly which cannot be given
directly. The statute is procedural and does not supply
an independent ground of jurisdiction. Skelly Oil Co. v.
Phillips Co., 339 U.S. 667, 671, 70 S.Ct. 876, 94 L.Ed.
1194; Rolls-Royce Limited v. United States, 364 F.2d
415, 419, 176 Ct.Cl. 694; Mayer v. Ordman, 6 Cir., 391
F.2d 889, 892. Although the "broad view" may have the
merit of simplicity, this court is persuaded by the dicta
in Skelly Oil Co. v. Phillips Co., supra, 339 U.S. at 671-
674, 70 S.Ct. 876. 
[297 F.Supp. 1161]
 In that case the
Court, after noting the legislative trend to contract the
jurisdiction of the federal courts, said:
"To be observant of these (jurisdictional) restrictions is not to
indulge in formalism or sterile technicality. * * * To sanction suits
for declaratory relief as within the jurisdiction of the District
Courts merely because, as in this case, artful pleading anticipates a
defense based on federal law would contravene the whole trend of
jurisdictional legislation by Congress, disregard the effective
functioning of the federal judicial system and distort the limited
procedural purpose of the Declaratory Judgment Act." 339 U.S. at
673-674, 70 S.Ct. at 880.
This court does not believe that Congress, in enacting
the Declaratory Judgment Act, intended to permit a
person to invoke the jurisdiction of the federal courts
merely because he commenced a declaratory judgment
action before the other party was able to commence his
nonremovable coercive action in state court. To permit
him to do so would be to permit him to do indirectly
that which he cannot do directly.
The case of Community Federal Savings and Loan Ass'n
v. Fields, 8 Cir., 128 F.2d 705, cited by plaintiff, may be
authority for the merits of plaintiff's claim, but it does
not support his jurisdictional claim. That was an action
by an individual against a federal savings and loan
association and its receiver. It was removed to federal
court and a motion to remand was overruled. The
appellate court expressly stated that the overruling of
this motion was not an issue on appeal, and thus the
court did not determine the question of federal
jurisdiction. Indeed, the district court's opinion,
reported in 37 F.Supp. 367, reveals that jurisdiction was
based on the fact that the federal government owned
more than one-half of the capital stock of one of the
defendants.
This is a court of limited jurisdiction and those
limitations must be strictly observed. See Walsh v.
American Airlines, E.D.Ky., 264 F.Supp. 514.
Defendant's motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction
over the subject matter should be sustained.
An order in conformity with this memorandum is this
day entered.