A domiciliary of Ontario, Canada, was killed when the
automobile in which he was riding, owned and 
[31
N.Y.2d 124]
 driven by a New York resident, collided
with a train in Ontario. That jurisdiction has a guest
statute, and the primary question posed by this appeal is
whether in this action brought by the Ontario
passenger's estate, Ontario law should be applied and the
New York defendant permitted to rely on its guest
statute as a defense.
The facts are quickly told. On May 7, 1969, Arthur
Kuehner, the defendant's intestate, a resident of Buffalo,
drove his automobile from that city to Fort Erie in the
Province of Ontario, Canada, where he picked up Amie
Neumeier, who lived in that town with his wife and
their children. Their trip was to take them to Long
Beach, also in Ontario, and back again to Neumeier's
home in Fort Erie. However, at a railroad crossing in the
Town of Sherkston — on the way to Long Beach — the
auto was struck by a train of the defendant Canadian
National Railway Company. Both Kuehner and his
guest-passenger were instantly killed.
Neumeier's wife and administratrix, a citizen of Canada
and a domiciliary of Ontario, thereupon commenced
this wrongful death action in New York against both
Kuehner's estate and the Canadian National Railway
Company. The defendant estate pleaded, as an
affirmative defense, the Ontario guest statute and the
defendant railway also interposed defenses in reliance
upon it. In substance, the statute provides that the
owner or driver of a motor vehicle is not liable for
damages resulting from injury to, or the death of, a
guest-passenger unless he was guilty of gross negligence
(Highway Traffic Act of Province of Ontario [Ont. Rev.
Stat. (1960), ch. 172], 
§
 105, subd. [2], as amd. by Stat. of
1966, ch. 64, 
§
 20, subd. [2]). It is worth noting, at this
point, that, although our court originally considered
that the sole purpose of the Ontario statute was to
protect Ontario defendants and their insurers against
collusive claims (see Babcock v. Jackson, 12 N.Y.2d 473,
482-483), "Further research * * * has revealed the
distinct possibility that one purpose, and perhaps the
only purpose, of the statute was to protect owners and
drivers against suits by ungrateful guests." (Reese,
Choice of Law, 71 Col. L. Rev. 548, 558; see Trautman,
Two Views on Kell v. Henderson: A Comment, 67 Col.
L. Rev. 465, 469.)
[31 N.Y.2d 125]
 The plaintiff, asserting that the Ontario
statute "is not available * * * in the present action",
moved, pursuant to CPLR 3211 (subd. [b]), to dismiss
the affirmative defenses pleaded. The court at Special
Term, holding the guest statute applicable, denied the
motions (63 Misc.2d 766) but, on appeal, a closely
divided Appellate Division reversed and directed
dismissal of the defenses (37 A.D.2d 70). It was the
court's belief that this result was dictated by Tooker v.
Lopez (24 N.Y.2d 569).
In reaching that conclusion, the Appellate Division
misread our decision in the Tooker case — a not
unnatural result in light of the variant views expressed
in the three separate opinions written on behalf of the
majority. It is important to bear in mind that in Tooker,
the guest-passenger and the host-driver were both
domiciled in New York, and our decision — that New
York law was controlling — was based upon, and limited
to, that fact situation. Indeed, two of the three judges
who wrote for reversal — Judge KEATING (24 N Y 2d,
at p. 580) and Judge BURKE (at p. 591) — expressly
noted that the determination then being made left open
the question whether New York law would be
applicable if the plaintiff passenger happened to be a
domiciliary of the very jurisdiction which had a guest
statute.
1 
 Thus, Tooker v. Lopez did no more than hold
that, when the passenger and driver are residents of the
same jurisdiction and the car is there registered and
insured, its law, and not the law of the place of accident,
controls and determines the standard of care which the
host owes to his guest.
What significantly and effectively differentiates the
present case is the fact that, although the host was a
domiciliary of New York, the guest, for whose death
recovery is sought, was domiciled in Ontario, the place
of accident and the very jurisdiction which had enacted
the statute designed to protect the host from liability for
ordinary negligence. It is clear that, although New York
has a deep interest in protecting its own residents,
injured in a foreign state, against unfair or anachronistic
statutes of that state, it has no legitimate interest in 
[31
N.Y.2d 126]
 ignoring the public policy of a foreign
jurisdiction — such as Ontario — and in protecting the
plaintiff guest domiciled and injured there from
legislation obviously addressed, at the very least, to a
resident riding in a vehicle traveling within its borders.
To distinguish Tooker on such a basis is not improperly
discriminatory. It is quite true that, in applying the
Ontario guest statute to the Ontario-domiciled
passenger, we, in a sense, extend a right less generous
than New York extends to a New York passenger in a
New York vehicle with New York insurance. That,
though, is not a consequence of invidious
discrimination; it is, rather, the result of the existence of
disparate rules of law in jurisdictions that have diverse
and important connections with the litigants and the
litigated issue.
The fact that insurance policies issued in this State on
New York-based vehicles cover liability, regardless of
the place of the accident (Vehicle and Traffic Law, 
§
311, subd. 4), certainly does not call for the application
of internal New York law in this case. The compulsory
insurance requirement is designed to cover a car-
owner's liability, not create it; in other words, the
applicable statute was not intended to impose liability
where none would otherwise exist. This being so, we
may not properly look to the New York insurance
requirement to dictate a choice-of-law rule which would
invariably impose liability. As Justice MOULE wrote in
the course of his dissenting opinion below (37 A D 2d,
at pp. 75-76), "The statute [Vehicle and Traffic Law, 
§
311, subd. 4] does not purport to impose liability where
none would otherwise exist. We must observe that
Judge KEATING'S statement ([in Tooker, 24 N Y 2d,
at] p. 577) that the Legislature `has evinced
commendable concern not only for the residents of this
State, but residents of other States who may be injured
as a result of the activities of New York residents' was in
the context, not of proving that New York had a
governmental interest in overriding foreign rules of
liability, but of demonstrating that it was immaterial in
that case that the driver and passenger, while
domiciliaries of New York, were attending college in
Michigan. While New York may be a proper forum for
actions involving its own domiciliaries, regardless of
where the accident happened, it does not follow that we
should apply New York law simply because some may
think it is a better rule, where doing so does not advance
any New York State 
[31 N.Y.2d 127]
 interest, nor the
interest of any New York State domiciliary."
When, in Babcock v. Jackson (12 N.Y.2d 473, supra), we
rejected the mechanical place of injury rule in personal
injury cases because it failed to take account of
underlying policy considerations, we were willing to
sacrifice the certainty provided by the old rule for the
more just, fair and practical result that may best be
achieved by giving controlling effect to the law of the
jurisdiction which has the greatest concern with, or
interest in, the specific issue raised in the litigation. (See,
also, Tooker v. Lopez, 24 N.Y.2d 569, 584 [concurring
opn.], supra.) In consequence of the change effected —
and this was to be anticipated — our decisions in multi-
state highway accident cases, particularly in those
involving guest-host controversies, have, it must be
acknowledged, lacked consistency. This stemmed, in
part, from the circumstance that it is frequently difficult
to discover the purposes or policies underlying the
relevant local law rules of the respective jurisdictions
involved. It is even more difficult, assuming that these
purposes or policies are found to conflict, to determine
on some principled basis which should be given effect at
the expense of the others.
The single all-encompassing rule which called,
inexorably, for selection of the law of the place of injury
was discarded, and wisely, because it was too broad to
prove satisfactory in application. There is, however, no
reason why choice-of-law rules, more narrow than
those previously devised, should not be successfully
developed, in order to assure a greater degree of
predictability and uniformity, on the basis of our present
knowledge and experience. (See, e.g., Cavers, The
Choice of Law Process, 121-122; Reese, Choice of Law,
71 Col. L. Rev. 548, 555, 561-562; Reese, Choice of Law:
Rules or Approach, 57 Corn. L. Rev. 315, 321 et seq.;
Rosenberg, Comments on Reich v. Purcell, 15 UCLA L.
Rev. 641, 642, 646-647.) "The time has come," I wrote
in Tooker (24 N Y 2d, at p. 584), "to endeavor to
minimize what some have characterized as an ad hoc
case-by-case approach by laying down guidelines, as well
as we can, for the solution of guest-host conflicts
problems." Babcock and its progeny enable us to
formulate a set of basic principles that may be profitably
utilized, for they have helped us uncover the underlying
values and policies which are operative in this area of
the law. To quote again from the concurring 
[31 N.Y.2d
128]
 opinion in Tooker (p. 584), "Now that these values
and policies have been revealed, we may proceed to the
next stage in the evolution of the law — the formulation
of a few rules of general applicability, promising a fair
level of predictability." Although it was recognized that
no rule may be formulated to guarantee a satisfactory
result in every case, the following principles were
proposed as sound for situations involving guest statutes
in conflicts settings (24 N Y 2d, at p. 585):
"1. When the guest-passenger and the host-driver are domiciled in
the same state, and the car is there registered, the law of that state
should control and determine the standard of care which the host
owes to his guest.
"2. When the driver's conduct occurred in the state of his domicile
and that state does not cast him in liability for that conduct, he
should not be held liable by reason of the fact that liability would be
imposed upon him under the tort law of the state of the victim's
domicile. Conversely, when the guest was injured in the state of his
own domicile and its law permits recovery, the driver who has
come into that state should not — in the absence of special
circumstances — be permitted to interpose the law of his state as a
defense.
"3. In other situations, when the passenger and the driver are
domiciled in different states, the rule is necessarily less categorical.
Normally, the applicable rule of decision will be that of the state
where the accident occurred but not if it can be shown that
displacing that normally applicable rule will advance the relevant
substantive law purposes without impairing the smooth working of
the multi-state system or producing great uncertainty for litigants.
(Cf. Restatement, 2d, Conflict of Laws, P.O.D., pt. II, 
§§
 146, 159
[later adopted and promulgated May 23, 1969].)"
The variant views expressed not only in Tooker but by
Special Term and the divided Appellate Division in this
litigation underscore and confirm the need for these
rules. Since the passenger was domiciled in Ontario and
the driver in New York, the present case is covered by
the third stated principle. The law to be applied is that
of the jurisdiction where the accident happened 
[31
N.Y.2d 129]
 unless it appears that "displacing [the]
normally applicable rule will advance the relevant
substantive law purposes" of the jurisdictions involved.
Certainly, ignoring Ontario's policy requiring proof of
gross negligence in a case which involves an Ontario-
domiciled guest at the expense of a New Yorker does
not further the substantive law purposes of New York.
In point of fact, application of New York law would
result in the exposure of this State's domiciliaries to a
greater liability than that imposed upon resident users of
Ontario's highways. Conversely, the failure to apply
Ontario's law would "impair" — to cull from the rule set
out above — "the smooth working of the multi-state
system [and] produce great uncertainty for litigants" by
sanctioning forum shopping and thereby allowing a
party to select a forum which could give him a larger
recovery than the court of his own domicile. In short,
the plaintiff has failed to show that this State's
connection with the controversy was sufficient to justify
displacing the rule of lex loci delictus.
Professor Willis Reese, the Reporter for the current
Conflict of Laws Restatement, expressed approval of
rules such as those suggested above; they are, he wrote,
"the sort of rules at which the courts should aim" (Reese,
Choice of Law, 71 Col. L. Rev. 548, 562; see, also, Reese,
Choice of Law: Rules or Approach, 57 Corn. L. Rev.
315, 321, 323, 328).
1 
 Indeed, in discussing the present
case following the determination at Special Term that
Ontario law should govern, he expressed the opinion
that any other result would have been highly
unreasonable (71 Col. L. Rev., at p. 563): "So far as the
New York law was concerned, Judge Keating had
argued in Tooker v. Lopez that New York's motor
vehicle compulsory insurance law revealed a
`commendable concern' not only for New York
residents but also for non-residents injured by New
Yorkers. On this basis, it could perhaps be argued that
New York policy would be furthered by application of
the New York rule imposing upon the driver the duty of
exercising ordinary care for 
[31 N.Y.2d 130]
 the
protection of his guest. But could this argument really be
made with a straight face in support of an Ontario guest
picked up in Ontario and who enjoyed no similar
protection under Ontario Law? Was the New York rule
really intended to be manna for the entire world? One
can well understand the relief with which the trial judge
seized upon Judge Fuld's third rule and followed it by
holding the Ontario statute applicable."
In each action, the Appellate Division's order should be
reversed, that of Special Term reinstated, without costs,
and the questions certified answered in the negative.