The doctrine of lex loci delictus, whatever its other
shortcomings may be, including a somewhat abrasive
effect on inconsistent law of the forum, had at least the
virtues of certainty and reckonability.
But the operation of the guest statutes of other
jurisdictions worked out so differently — unjustly by
New York standards — that in a series of highly
debatable and debated decisions from Babcock v.
Jackson (12 N.Y.2d 473 [1963]) to Tooker v. Lopez (24
N.Y.2d 569 [1969]) this court refused to follow the rule
of lex loci delictus in special situations and applied New
York law in New York litigation to motor vehicle torts
occurring in other jurisdictions.
The rationale of departure from the settled rule was that
New York had a greater "concern" or "interest" in the
controversy or the parties; or had closer "contacts" than
the jurisdiction of the situs of the accident. See Miller v.
Miller (22 N.Y.2d 12); Farber v. Smolack (20 N.Y.2d
198), and Macey v. Rozbicki (18 N.Y.2d 289). The
decision in Dym v. Gordon (16 N.Y.2d 120) went the
other way. The direction taken and justified by the
rationale of "interest" or "contact", however, necessarily
started with the court's preference for the local rule and
a belief in its greater justice.
There is a difference of fundamental character between
justifying a departure from lex loci delictus because the
court will not, as a matter of policy, permit a New York
owner of a car licensed and insured in New York to
escape a liability that would be imposed on him here;
and a departure based on the fact a New York resident
makes the claim for injury. The first ground of
departure is justifiable as sound policy; the second is
justifiable only if one is willing to treat the rights of a
stranger permitted to sue in New York differently from
the way a resident is treated. Neither because of
"interest" nor "contact" nor any other defensible ground
is it proper to say in a court of law that the rights of one
man whose suit is accepted 
[31 N.Y.2d 133]
 shall be
adjudged differently on the merits on the basis of where
he happens to live.
This crunch in the rule announced in Babcock (12
N.Y.2d 473, supra) was inevitable as it worked its way
into the practice. And the difficulty was recognized in
Tooker (24 N.Y.2d 569, supra). Although Tooker,
unlike the present case, involved a New York plaintiff
and thus was similar to Babcock and the cases which had
followed Babcock, the opinion of the court laid it down
that the New York owner of a car insured in New York
would not be permitted to escape liability through the
guest statute of Michigan and that this was the main
ground of decision. The court in Tooker said (p. 575):
"This purpose [of a statute of another jurisdiction
establishing higher standards for the recovery of guests
in vehicles] can never be vindicated when the insurer is
a New York carrier and the defendant is sued in the
courts of this State. Under such circumstances, the
jurisdiction enacting such a guest statute has absolutely
no interest in the application of its law."
The decision was 4-to-3; but a majority of the Judges
expressly subscribed to the opinion by Judge KEATING
even though Chief Judge FULD and Judge BURKE
stated additional grounds of concurrence. The quoted
statement of policy in the Tooker opinion, which was
the court's statement and not the view of an individual
Judge has the normal binding effect of such an opinion.
Reading these words of the opinion of the court the Bar
would reasonably anticipate that the more basic and
justifiable ground for refusing a New York vehicle the
differential benefit of a foreign statute would be applied
in future. Such a rule would offer more in the way of
reckonability and predictability than the elusive
grouping of "contacts" or "interests".
Hence the Appellate Division was justified in reading
Tooker (24 N.Y.2d 569, supra) to dismiss the asserted
defense in this action. What the court is deciding today
is that although it will prevent a New York car owner
from asserting the defense of a protective foreign statute
when a New York resident in whose rights it has an
"interest" sues; it has no such "interest" when it accepts
the suit in New York of a nonresident. This is an
inadmissible distinction.
The order should be affirmed.
Orders reversed, etc.