The questions for decision are (1) whether, within the
limitations of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, appellant, a Delaware corporation, has by
its activities in the State of Washington rendered itself
amenable to proceedings in the courts of that state to
recover unpaid contributions to the state
unemployment compensation fund exacted by state
statutes, Washington Unemployment Compensation
Act, Washington Revised Statutes, § 9998-103a through
§ 9998-123a, 1941 Supp., and (2) whether the state can
exact those contributions consistently with the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The statutes in question set up a comprehensive scheme
of unemployment compensation, the costs of which are
defrayed by contributions required to be made by
employers to a state unemployment compensation fund.
[326 U.S. 312] The contributions are a specified
percentage of the wages payable annually by each
employer for his employees' services in the state. The
assessment and collection of the contributions and the
fund are administered by appellees. Section 14 (c) of the
Act (Wash. Rev. Stat., 1941 Supp., § 9998-114c)
authorizes appellee Commissioner to issue an order and
notice of assessment of delinquent contributions upon
prescribed personal service of the notice upon the
employer if found within the state, or, if not so found,
by mailing the notice to the employer by registered mail
at his last known address. That section also authorizes
the Commissioner to collect the assessment by distraint
if it is not paid within ten days after service of the
notice. By §§ 14e and 6b the order of assessment may be
administratively reviewed by an appeal tribunal within
the office of unemployment upon petition of the
employer, and this determination is by § 6i made subject
to judicial review on questions of law by the state
Superior Court, with further right of appeal in the state
Supreme Court as in other civil cases.
In this case notice of assessment for the years in
question was personally served upon a sales solicitor
employed by appellant in the State of Washington, and a
copy of the notice was mailed by registered mail to
appellant at its address in St. Louis, Missouri. Appellant
appeared specially before the office of unemployment
and moved to set aside the order and notice of
assessment on the ground that the service upon
appellant's salesman was not proper service upon
appellant; that appellant was not a corporation of the
State of Washington and was not doing business within
the state; that it had no agent within the state upon
whom service could be made; and that appellant is not
an employer and does not furnish employment within
the meaning of the statute.
The motion was heard on evidence and a stipulation of
facts by the appeal tribunal which denied the motion
[326 U.S. 313] and ruled that appellee Commissioner was
entitled to recover the unpaid contributions. That action
was affirmed by the Commissioner; both the Superior
Court and the Supreme Court affirmed. 22 Wn.2d 146,
154 P.2d 801. Appellant in each of these courts assailed
the statute as applied, as a violation of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and as imposing a
constitutionally prohibited burden on interstate
commerce. The cause comes here on appeal under § 237
(a) of the Judicial Code, 28 U.S.C. § 344 (a), appellant
assigning as error that the challenged statutes as applied
infringe the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and the commerce clause.
The facts as found by the appeal tribunal and accepted
by the state Superior Court and Supreme Court, are not
in dispute. Appellant is a Delaware corporation, having
its principal place of business in St. Louis, Missouri, and
is engaged in the manufacture and sale of shoes and
other footwear. It maintains places of business in several
states, other than Washington, at which its
manufacturing is carried on and from which its
merchandise is distributed interstate through several
sales units or branches located outside the State of
Washington.
Appellant has no office in Washington and makes no
contracts either for sale or purchase of merchandise
there. It maintains no stock of merchandise in that state
and makes there no deliveries of goods in intrastate
commerce. During the years from 1937 to 1940, now in
question, appellant employed eleven to thirteen
salesmen under direct supervision and control of sales
managers located in St. Louis. These salesmen resided in
Washington; their principal activities were confined to
that state; and they were compensated by commissions
based upon the amount of their sales. The commissions
for each year totaled more than $31,000. Appellant
supplies its salesmen with a line of samples, each
consisting of one shoe of a pair, which [326 U.S. 314]
they display to prospective purchasers. On occasion they
rent permanent sample rooms, for exhibiting samples,
in business buildings, or rent rooms in hotels or
business buildings temporarily for that purpose. The
cost of such rentals is reimbursed by appellant.
The authority of the salesmen is limited to exhibiting
their samples and soliciting orders from prospective
buyers, at prices and on terms fixed by appellant. The
salesmen transmit the orders to appellant's office in St.
Louis for acceptance or rejection, and when accepted the
merchandise for filling the orders is shipped f.o.b. from
points outside Washington to the purchasers within the
state. All the merchandise shipped into Washington is
invoiced at the place of shipment from which collections
are made. No salesman has authority to enter into
contracts or to make collections.
The Supreme Court of Washington was of opinion that
the regular and systematic solicitation of orders in the
state by appellant's salesmen, resulting in a continuous
flow of appellant's product into the state, was sufficient
to constitute doing business in the state so as to make
appellant amenable to suit in its courts. But it was also of
opinion that there were sufficient additional activities
shown to bring the case within the rule frequently
stated, that solicitation within a state by the agents of a
foreign corporation plus some additional activities there
are sufficient to render the corporation amenable to suit
brought in the courts of the state to enforce an
obligation arising out of its activities there. International
Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U.S. 579, 587; People's
Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U.S. 79, 87;
Frene v. Louisville Cement Co., 77 U.S. App. D.C. 129,
134 F.2d 511, 516. The court found such additional
activities in the salesmen's display of samples sometimes
in permanent display rooms, and the salesmen's
residence within the state, continued over a period of
years, all resulting in a [326 U.S. 315] substantial volume
of merchandise regularly shipped by appellant to
purchasers within the state. The court also held that the
statute as applied did not invade the constitutional
power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce and
did not impose a prohibited burden on such commerce.
Appellant's argument, renewed here, that the statute
imposes an unconstitutional burden on interstate
commerce need not detain us. For 53 Stat. 1391, 26
U.S.C. § 1606 (a) provides that "No person required
under a State law to make payments to an
unemployment fund shall be relieved from compliance
therewith on the ground that he is engaged in interstate
or foreign commerce, or that the State law does not
distinguish between employees engaged in interstate or
foreign commerce and those engaged in intrastate
commerce." It is no longer debatable that Congress, in
the exercise of the commerce power, may authorize the
states, in specified ways, to regulate interstate commerce
or impose burdens upon it. Kentucky Whip & Collar
Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 299 U.S. 334; Perkins v.
Pennsylvania, 314 U.S. 586; Standard Dredging Corp. v.
Murphy, 319 U.S. 306, 308; Hooven & Allison Co. v.
Evatt, 324 U.S. 652, 679; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Arizona, 325 U.S. 761, 769.
Appellant also insists that its activities within the state
were not sufficient to manifest its "presence" there and
that in its absence the state courts were without
jurisdiction, that consequently it was a denial of due
process for the state to subject appellant to suit. It refers
to those cases in which it was said that the mere
solicitation of orders for the purchase of goods within a
state, to be accepted without the state and filled by
shipment of the purchased goods interstate, does not
render the corporation seller amenable to suit within
the state. See Green v. Chicago, B. & Q.R. Co., 205 U.S.
530, 533; International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky,
supra, 586-587; Philadelphia & Reading R. Co. v.
McKibbin, 243 U.S. 264, 268;[326 U.S. 316] People's
Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., supra, 87. And
appellant further argues that since it was not present
within the state, it is a denial of due process to subject it
to taxation or other money exaction. It thus denies the
power of the state to lay the tax or to subject appellant
to a suit for its collection.
Historically the jurisdiction of courts to render
judgment in personam is grounded on their de facto
power over the defendant's person. Hence his presence
within the territorial jurisdiction of a court was
prerequisite to its rendition of a judgment personally
binding him. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714, 733. But
now that the capias ad respondendum has given way to
personal service of summons or other form of notice,
due process requires only that in order to subject a
defendant to a judgment in personam, if he be not
present within the territory of the forum, he have
certain minimum contacts with it such that the
maintenance of the suit does not offend "traditional
notions of fair play and substantial justice." Milliken v.
Meyer, 311 U.S. 457, 463. See Holmes, J., in McDonald
v. Mabee, 243 U.S. 90, 91. Compare Hoopeston Canning
Co. v. Cullen, 318 U.S. 313, 316, 319. See Blackmer v.
United States, 284 U.S. 421; Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U.S.
352; Young v. Masci, 289 U.S. 253.
Since the corporate personality is a fiction, although a
fiction intended to be acted upon as though it were a
fact, Klein v. Board of Supervisors, 282 U.S. 19, 24, it is
clear that unlike an individual its "presence" without, as
well as within, the state of its origin can be manifested
only by activities carried on in its behalf by those who
are authorized to act for it. To say that the corporation
is so far "present" there as to satisfy due process
requirements, for purposes of taxation or the
maintenance of suits against it in the courts of the state,
is to beg the question to be decided. For the terms
"present" or "presence" are [326 U.S. 317] used merely to
symbolize those activities of the corporation's agent
within the state which courts will deem to be sufficient
to satisfy the demands of due process. L. Hand, J., in
Hutchinson v. Chase & Gilbert, 45 F.2d 139, 141. Those
demands may be met by such contacts of the
corporation with the state of the forum as make it
reasonable, in the context of our federal system of
government, to require the corporation to defend the
particular suit which is brought there. An "estimate of
the inconveniences" which would result to the
corporation from a trial away from its "home" or
principal place of business is relevant in this connection.
Hutchinson v. Chase & Gilbert, supra, 141.
"Presence" in the state in this sense has never been
doubted when the activities of the corporation there
have not only been continuous and systematic, but also
give rise to the liabilities sued on, even though no
consent to be sued or authorization to an agent to accept
service of process has been given. St. Clair v. Cox, 106
U.S. 350, 355; Connecticut Mutual Co. v. Spratley, 172
U.S. 602, 610-611; Pennsylvania Lumbermen's Ins. Co.
v. Meyer, 197 U.S. 407, 414-415; Commercial Mutual
Co. v. Davis, 213 U.S. 245, 255-256; International
Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, supra; cf. St. Louis S.W.R.
Co. v. Alexander, 227 U.S. 218. Conversely it has been
generally recognized that the casual presence of the
corporate agent or even his conduct of single or isolated
items of activities in a state in the corporation's behalf
are not enough to subject it to suit on causes of action
unconnected with the activities there. St. Clair v. Cox,
supra, 359, 360; Old Wayne Life Assn. v. McDonough,
204 U.S. 8, 21; Frene v. Louisville Cement Co., supra,
515, and cases cited. To require the corporation in such
circumstances to defend the suit away from its home or
other jurisdiction where it carries on more substantial
activities has been thought to lay too great and
unreasonable a burden on the corporation to comport
with due process.
[326 U.S. 318] While it has been held, in cases on which
appellant relies, that continuous activity of some sorts
within a state is not enough to support the demand that
the corporation be amenable to suits unrelated to that
activity, Old Wayne Life Assn. v. McDonough, supra;
Green v. Chicago, B. & Q.R. Co., supra; Simon v.
Southern R. Co., 236 U.S. 115; People's Tobacco Co. v.
American Tobacco Co., supra; cf. Davis v. Farmers Cooperative
Co., 262 U.S. 312, 317, there have been
instances in which the continuous corporate operations
within a state were thought so substantial and of such a
nature as to justify suit against it on causes of action
arising from dealings entirely distinct from those
activities. See Missouri, K. & T.R. Co. v. Reynolds, 255
U.S. 565; Tauza v. Susquehanna Coal Co., 220 N.Y. 259,
115 N.E. 915; cf. St. Louis S.W.R. Co. v. Alexander,
supra.
Finally, although the commission of some single or
occasional acts of the corporate agent in a state sufficient
to impose an obligation or liability on the corporation
has not been thought to confer upon the state authority
to enforce it, Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v. Curtis Brown
Co., 260 U.S. 516, other such acts, because of their
nature and quality and the circumstances of their
commission, may be deemed sufficient to render the
corporation liable to suit. Cf. Kane v. New Jersey, 242
U.S. 160; Hess v. Pawloski, supra; Young v. Masci,
supra. True, some of the decisions holding the
corporation amenable to suit have been supported by
resort to the legal fiction that it has given its consent to
service and suit, consent being implied from its presence
in the state through the acts of its authorized agents.
Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18 How. 404, 407; St.
Clair v. Cox, supra, 356; Commercial Mutual Co. v.
Davis, supra, 254; Washington v. Superior Court, 289
U.S. 361, 364-365. But more realistically it may be said
that those authorized acts were of such a nature as to
justify the fiction. Smolik v. Philadelphia & Reading Co.,
222 F. 148, 151.[326 U.S. 319] Henderson, The Position
of Foreign Corporations in American Constitutional
Law, 94-95.
It is evident that the criteria by which we mark the
boundary line between those activities which justify the
subjection of a corporation to suit, and those which do
not, cannot be simply mechanical or quantitative. The
test is not merely, as has sometimes been suggested,
whether the activity, which the corporation has seen fit
to procure through its agents in another state, is a little
more or a little less. St. Louis S.W.R. Co. v. Alexander,
supra, 228; International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky,
supra, 587. Whether due process is satisfied must
depend rather upon the quality and nature of the activity
in relation to the fair and orderly administration of the
laws which it was the purpose of the due process clause
to insure. That clause does not contemplate that a state
may make binding a judgment in personam against an
individual or corporate defendant with which the state
has no contacts, ties, or relations. Cf. Pennoyer v. Neff,
supra; Minnesota Commercial Assn. v. Benn, 261 U.S.
140.
But to the extent that a corporation exercises the
privilege of conducting activities within a state, it enjoys
the benefits and protection of the laws of that state. The
exercise of that privilege may give rise to obligations,
and, so far as those obligations arise out of or are
connected with the activities within the state, a
procedure which requires the corporation to respond to
a suit brought to enforce them can, in most instances,
hardly be said to be undue. Compare International
Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, supra, with Green v.
Chicago, B. & Q.R. Co., supra, and People's Tobacco Co.
v. American Tobacco Co., supra. Compare Connecticut
Mutual Co. v. Spratley, supra, 619, 620 and Commercial
Mutual Co. v. Davis, supra, with Old Wayne Life Assn.
v. McDonough, supra. See 29 Columbia Law Review,
187-195.
[326 U.S. 320] Applying these standards, the activities
carried on in behalf of appellant in the State of
Washington were neither irregular nor casual. They
were systematic and continuous throughout the years in
question. They resulted in a large volume of interstate
business, in the course of which appellant received the
benefits and protection of the laws of the state,
including the right to resort to the courts for the
enforcement of its rights. The obligation which is here
sued upon arose out of those very activities. It is evident
that these operations establish sufficient contacts or ties
with the state of the forum to make it reasonable and
just, according to our traditional conception of fair play
and substantial justice, to permit the state to enforce the
obligations which appellant has incurred there. Hence
we cannot say that the maintenance of the present suit
in the State of Washington involves an unreasonable or
undue procedure.
We are likewise unable to conclude that the service of
the process within the state upon an agent whose
activities establish appellant's "presence" there was not
sufficient notice of the suit, or that the suit was so
unrelated to those activities as to make the agent an
inappropriate vehicle for communicating the notice. It is
enough that appellant has established such contacts with
the state that the particular form of substituted service
adopted there gives reasonable assurance that the notice
will be actual. Connecticut Mutual Co. v. Spratley,
supra, 618, 619; Board of Trade v. Hammond Elevator
Co., 198 U.S. 424, 437-438; Commercial Mutual Co. v.
Davis, supra, 254-255. Cf. Riverside Mills v. Menefee,
237 U.S. 189, 194, 195; see Knowles v. Gaslight & Coke
Co., 19 Wall. 58, 61; McDonald v. Mabee, supra;
Milliken v. Meyer, supra. Nor can we say that the
mailing of the notice of suit to appellant by registered
mail at its home office was not reasonably calculated to
apprise appellant of the suit. Compare Hess v. Pawloski,
supra, with McDonald v. Mabee, supra, [326 U.S. 321]
92, and Wuchter v. Pizzutti, 276 U.S. 13, 19, 24; cf.
Becquet v. MacCarthy, 2 B. & Ad. 951; Maubourquet v.
Wyse, 1 Ir. Rep. C.L. 471. See Washington v. Superior
Court, supra, 365.
Only a word need be said of appellant's liability for the
demanded contributions to the state unemployment
fund. The Supreme Court of Washington, construing
and applying the statute, has held that it imposes a tax
on the privilege of employing appellant's salesmen
within the state measured by a percentage of the wages,
here the commissions payable to the salesmen. This
construction we accept for purposes of determining the
constitutional validity of the statute. The right to
employ labor has been deemed an appropriate subject of
taxation in this country and England, both before and
since the adoption of the Constitution. Steward
Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U.S. 548, 579, et seq. And
such a tax imposed upon the employer for
unemployment benefits is within the constitutional
power of the states. Carmichael v. Southern Coal Co.,
301 U.S. 495, 508, et seq.
Appellant having rendered itself amenable to suit upon
obligations arising out of the activities of its salesmen in
Washington, the state may maintain the present suit in
personam to collect the tax laid upon the exercise of the
privilege of employing appellant's salesmen within the
state. For Washington has made one of those activities,
which taken together establish appellant's "presence"
there for purposes of suit, the taxable event by which
the state brings appellant within the reach of its taxing
power. The state thus has constitutional power to lay
the tax and to subject appellant to a suit to recover it.
The activities which establish its "presence" subject it
alike to taxation by the state and to suit to recover the
tax. Equitable Life Society v. Pennsylvania, 238 U.S. 143,
146; cf. International Harvester Co. v. Department of
Taxation, 322 U.S. 435, 442, et seq.; Hoopeston Canning
Co. v. Cullen, [326 U.S. 322] supra, 316-319; see General
Trading Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 322 U.S. 335.
Affirmed.