In 1945, Michigan-Wisconsin Pipe Line Company
sought from the Federal Power Commission a certificate
of public convenience and necessity, required by § 7 (c)
of the Natural Gas Act, 52 Stat. 825, as amended, 15 U.
S. C. § 717f (c), for the construction and operation of a
pipe line to carry natural gas from Texas to Michigan
and Wisconsin. A prerequisite for such a certificate is
adequate reserves of gas. To obtain these reserves
Michigan-Wisconsin entered into an agreement with
Phillips Petroleum Company on December 11, 1945,
whereby the latter undertook to make available gas from
the Hugoton Gas Field, sprawling over Kansas,
Oklahoma and Texas, which it produced or purchased
from others. Phillips had contracted with petitioners,
Skelly Oil Company, Stanolind Oil and Gas Company,
and Magnolia Petroleum Company, to purchase gas
produced by them in the Hugoton Field for resale to
Michigan-Wisconsin. Each contract provided that "in
the event Michigan-Wisconsin Pipe Line Company
shall fail to secure from the Federal Power Commission
on or before [October 1, 1946] a certificate of public
convenience and necessity for the construction and
operation of its pipe line, Seller [a petitioner] shall have
the right to terminate this contract by written notice to
Buyer [Phillips] delivered to Buyer at any time after
December 1, 1946, but before the issuance of such
certificate." The legal significance of this provision is at
the core of this litigation.
The Federal Power Commission, in response to the
application of Michigan-Wisconsin, on November 30,
1946, ordered that "A certificate of public convenience
and necessity be and it is hereby issued to applicant
[Michigan-Wisconsin], upon the terms and conditions
of this order," listing among the conditions that there be
no transportation [339 U.S. 670] or sale of natural gas by
means of the sanctioned facilities until all necessary
authorizations were obtained from the State of
Wisconsin and the communities proposed to be served,
that Michigan-Wisconsin should have the approval of
the Securities and Exchange Commission for its plan of
financing, that the applicant should file for the approval
of the Commission a schedule of reasonable rates, and
that the sanctioned facilities should not be used for the
transportation of gas to Detroit and Ann Arbor except
with due regard for the rights and duties of Panhandle
Eastern Pipe Line Company, which had intervened
before the Federal Power Commission, in its established
service for resale in these areas, such rights and duties to
be set forth in a supplemental order. It was also
provided that Michigan-Wisconsin should have fifteen
days from the issue of the supplemental order to notify
the Commission whether the certificate "as herein
issued is acceptable to it." Finally, the Commission's
order provided that for purposes of computing the time
within which applications for rehearing could be filed,
"the date of issuance of this order shall be deemed to be
the date of issuance of the opinions, or of the
supplemental order referred to herein, whichever may
be the later." 5 F. P. C. 953, 954, 956.
News of the Commission's action was released on
November 30, 1946, but the actual content of the order
was not made public until December 2, 1946. Petitioners
severally, on December 2, 1946, gave notice to Phillips
of termination of their contracts on the ground that
Michigan-Wisconsin had not received a certificate of
public convenience and necessity. Thereupon MichiganWisconsin
and Phillips brought suit against petitioners
in the District Court for the Northern District of
Oklahoma. Alleging that a certificate of public
convenience and necessity, "within the meaning of said
Natural Gas Act and said contracts" had been issued
prior to petitioners' attempt [339 U.S. 671] at
termination of the contracts, they invoked the Federal
Declaratory Judgment Act for a declaration that the
contracts were still "in effect and binding upon the
parties thereto." Motions by petitioners to have
Michigan-Wisconsin dropped as a party plaintiff were
sustained, but motions to dismiss the complaint for
want of jurisdiction were denied. The case then went to
the merits, and the District Court decreed that the
contracts between Phillips and petitioners had not been
"effectively terminated and that each of such contracts
remain [sic] in full force and effect." The Court of
Appeals for the Tenth Circuit affirmed, 174 F.2d 89, and
we brought the case here, 338 U.S. 846, because it raises
in sharp form the question whether a suit like this
"arises under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States," 28 U. S. C. § 1331, so as to enable
District Courts to give declaratory relief under the
Declaratory Judgment Act. 48 Stat. 955, as amended,
now 28 U. S. C. § 2201.
"[T]he operation of the Declaratory Judgment Act is
procedural only." Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth, 300
U.S. 227, 240. Congress enlarged the range of remedies
available in the federal courts but did not extend their
jurisdiction. When concerned as we are with the power
of the inferior federal courts to entertain litigation
within the restricted area to which the Constitution and
Acts of Congress confine them, "jurisdiction" means the
kinds of issues which give right of entrance to federal
courts. Jurisdiction in this sense was not altered by the
Declaratory Judgment Act. Prior to that Act, a federal
court would entertain a suit on a contract only if the
plaintiff asked for an immediately enforceable remedy
like money damages or an injunction, but such relief
could only be given if the requisites of jurisdiction, in
the sense of a federal right or diversity, provided
foundation for resort to the federal courts. The
Declaratory Judgment Act allowed relief to be given by
way of recognizing the plaintiff's [339 U.S. 672] right
even though no immediate enforcement of it was asked.
But the requirements of jurisdiction—the limited subject
matters which alone Congress had authorized the
District Courts to adjudicate—were not impliedly
repealed or modified. See Great Lakes Dredge & Dock
Co. v. Huffman, 319 U.S. 293, 300; Colegrove v. Green,
328 U.S. 549, 551-52.
If Phillips sought damages from petitioners or specific
performance of their contracts, it could not bring suit in
a United States District Court on the theory that it was
asserting a federal right. And for the simple reason that
such a suit would "arise" under the State law governing
the contracts. Whatever federal claim Phillips may be
able to urge would in any event be injected into the case
only in anticipation of a defense to be asserted by
petitioners. "Not every question of federal law emerging
in a suit is proof that a federal law is the basis of the
suit." Gully v. First National Bank, 299 U.S. 109, 115;
compare 28 U. S. C. § 1257, with 28 U. S. C. § 1331.
Ever since Metcalf v. Watertown, 128 U.S. 586, 589, it
has been settled doctrine that where a suit is brought in
the federal courts "upon the sole ground that the
determination of the suit depends upon some question
of a Federal nature, it must appear, at the outset, from
the declaration or the bill of the party suing, that the suit
is of that character." But "a suggestion of one party, that
the other will or may set up a claim under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, does not make
the suit one arising under that Constitution or those
laws." Tennessee v. Union & Planters' Bank, 152 U.S.
454, 464. The plaintiff's claim itself must present a
federal question "unaided by anything alleged in
anticipation of avoidance of defenses which it is thought
the defendant may interpose." Taylor v. Anderson, 234
U.S. 74, 75-76; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley,
211 U.S. 149, 152.
[339 U.S. 673] These decisions reflect the current of
jurisdictional legislation since the Act of March 3, 1875,
18 Stat. 470, first entrusted to the lower federal courts
wide jurisdiction in cases "arising under this
Constitution, the Laws of the United States, and
Treaties." U. S. Const. Art. III, § 2. "The change is in
accordance with the general policy of these acts,
manifest upon their face, and often recognized by this
court, to contract the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
[which became the District Courts] of the United
States." Tennessee v. Union & Planters' Bank, supra at
462. See also Arkansas v. Kansas & Texas Coal Co., 183
U.S. 185, 188, and Gully v. First National Bank, supra at
112-14. With exceptions not now relevant Congress has
narrowed the opportunities for entrance into the federal
courts, and this Court has been more careful than in
earlier days in enforcing these jurisdictional limitations.
See Gully v. First National Bank, supra at 113.
To be observant of these restrictions is not to indulge in
formalism or sterile technicality. It would turn into the
federal courts a vast current of litigation indubitably
arising under State law, in the sense that the right to be
vindicated was State-created, if a suit for a declaration of
rights could be brought into the federal courts merely
because an anticipated defense derived from federal law.
Not only would this unduly swell the volume of
litigation in the District Courts but it would also
embarrass those courts—and this Court on potential
review—in that matters of local law may often be
involved, and the District Courts may either have to
decide doubtful questions of State law or hold cases
pending disposition of such State issues by State courts.
To sanction suits for declaratory relief as within the
jurisdiction of the District Courts merely because, as in
this case, artful pleading anticipates a defense based on
federal law would contravene the whole trend of
jurisdictional legislation [339 U.S. 674] by Congress,
disregard the effective functioning of the federal judicial
system and distort the limited procedural purpose of the
Declaratory Judgment Act. See Developments in the
Law—Declaratory Judgments—1941-1949, 62 Harv. L.
Rev. 787, 802-03 (1949). Since the matter in controversy
as to which Phillips asked for a declaratory judgment is
not one that "arises under the . . . laws . . . of the United
States" and since as to Skelly and Stanolind jurisdiction
cannot be sustained on the score of diversity of
citizenship, the proceedings against them should have
been dismissed.
As to Magnolia, a Texas corporation, a different
situation is presented. Since Phillips was a Delaware
corporation, there is diversity of citizenship. Magnolia
had qualified to do business in Oklahoma and appointed
an agent for service of process in accordance with the
prevailing Oklahoma statute. Okla. Stat. Ann. tit. 18, §
452 (1937). Magnolia claimed that the subject matter of
this proceeding did not arise in Oklahoma within the
meaning of its consent to be sued. This contention was
rejected below, and we do not reexamine the local law as
applied by the lower courts. Under the doctrine of
Neirbo Co. v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 308 U.S.
165, venue was properly laid in Oklahoma; that the
declaratory remedy which may be given by the federal
courts may not be available in the State courts is
immaterial.
Therefore, in the case of Magnolia we must reach the
merits. They relate to two matters: (1) the clause in the
contract with Phillips permitting its termination at any
time after December 1, 1946, but before the "issuance"
of "a certificate of public convenience and necessity" by
the Federal Power Commission; and (2) whether this
provision was satisfied by Magnolia's notice of
termination of December 2, 1946, despite the
Commission's order of November 30, 1946. The
phraseology "certificate of [339 U.S. 675] public
convenience and necessity" in the contract is identic
with the phrase in § 7 (c) of the Natural Gas Act. The
Court of Appeals equated the term of the contract with
that in the statute and in effect deemed its problem to be
the proper construction of what constitutes the
"issuance" of a "certificate of public convenience and
necessity" within the meaning of § 7 (c). So viewing the
matter, the court held that the order of November 30,
1946, satisfied the requirement of the contract, and that
therefore a certificate of public convenience and
necessity had been issued within the terminal period of
the contract, and that its termination was not timely.
It will be recalled that the order of November 30, 1946,
had three parts: (A) it stated that "A certificate of public
convenience and necessity be and it is hereby issued to
applicant [Michigan-Wisconsin]"; (B) it imposed certain
conditions upon the grant, some of which were to be set
forth in a supplemental order; and (C) it said that "For
the purpose of computing the time within which
applications for rehearing may be filed, the date of
issuance of this order shall be deemed to be the date of
issuance of the opinions, or of the supplemental order
referred to herein, whichever may be the later." 5 F. P.
C. at 954, 956. The course of reasoning by which the
Court of Appeals concluded that the order of November
30, 1946, satisfied the statutory requirement for a
certificate of public convenience and necessity can be
briefly summarized. It relied on the grammatical
argument that the Commission used the present tense in
its order and subsequently referred to it as an order
"issuing a certificate of public convenience and
necessity," e. g., 6 F. P. C. 1, 37; the conditional nature of
the order was not deemed to impair its efficacy since § 7
(e) of the Natural Gas Act authorized the Commission
"to attach to the issuance of the certificate and to the
exercise of the rights granted there-under such
reasonable terms and conditions as the public [339 U.S.
676] convenience and necessity may require"; and the
provision of the order connecting the date of the order's
issuance with the time defined for securing a rehearing
was thought relevant only to the supplemental order.
We are not persuaded now to rest decision on the
analysis of the Court of Appeals which led to its
conclusion. We need not linger long on the merely
grammatical argument of that court; it is given more
weight than it can bear. Of course, the Commission has
considerable administrative discretion to decide when
an order may fairly be deemed to have been "issued."
Section 16 of the Act provides that "Orders of the
Commission shall be effective on the date and in the
manner which the Commission shall prescribe." But
surely a certificate cannot be said to have been issued for
purposes of defining rights and the seeking of
reconsideration by an aggrieved person if its substance is
merely in the bosom of the Commission. Knowledge of
the substance must to some extent be made manifest.
Here the content of the order of November 30, 1946,
was not made public until December 2, 1946, the date of
the termination notice.
The Commission itself in its rule for computing
rehearing time distinguishes between "adoption" of an
order and its "issuance."1 However, as a matter of [339
U.S. 677] usage, the Commission has referred to an
order as having "issued" a certificate on a particular date
when in fact the date was that of "adoption." See, e. g.,
Arkansas Louisiana Gas Co., 5 F. P. C. 813, 897; cf.
Pacific Gas & Elec. Co., 5 F. P. C. 824, 901. Finally, the
restriction of the Court of Appeals of the rehearing
provision of Part C to the supplemental order finds no
support on the face of the order of November 30, 1946.
There is nothing to indicate that Part C was not to apply
to the entire order for purposes of § 19 of the Act,
which allows a rehearing by a party aggrieved "within
thirty days after the issuance of such order" and makes
such rehearing a prerequisite to judicial review. See 6 F.
P. C. 323.
Since the requirements of the Natural Gas Act for the
issuance of "a certificate of public convenience and
necessity" may be distributive in scope, varying with the
different contexts in which the question must be
examined, this is not the occasion to decide that these
requirements have a single uniform content. Whether
the statutory requirement here was satisfied is not a
question of fact, the finding of which by the District
Court is to be respected unless clearly erroneous. The
District Court merely found that the content of the
piece of paper dated November 30, 1946, was that day
agreed upon in executive session of the Commission and
that that fact was made known. But this leaves
untouched the legal significance of this action of the
Commission, and the Court ought not now in darkness
to pronounce on this question.
We are not restricted to disposition of the controversy
on so truncated a treatment of the issues that underlie
the record. Considering the fact that so to dispose of the
case [339 U.S. 678] would involve determination of an
important problem concerning a regulatory statute with
implications of public importance that private litigants
naturally enough do not wholly represent and that on
these matters neither the courts below nor this Court
had the benefit of the experience and illumination of the
agency entrusted with the enforcement of the Act,2 the
due administration of justice requires that we should
exercise our discretionary power in reviewing cases to
"require such further proceedings to be had as may be
just under the circumstances." 28 U. S. C. § 2106;
Honeyman v. Hanan, 300 U.S. 14, 25. Accordingly, we
think that the proper disposition requires that we vacate
the judgment as to Magnolia and remand the case in
order that the Court of Appeals either itself or by
sending the case back to the District Court can further
explore, through ways that may be appropriate, the
issues which have been laid bare. See Kennedy v. Silas
Mason Co., 334 U.S. 249.
The impact of the litigation both here and below was on
the proper construction of § 7 (c). Even though the
language of the contract may be identic with that of § 7
(c), this language in the contract may have a scope
independent of the proper construction of § 7 (c). The
same words, in different settings, may not mean the
same thing. Compare opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes in
Towne v. Eisner, 245 U.S. 418, with his dissent in
Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U.S. 189, 219. Parties do not
necessarily endow statutory language in a contract with
the scope of the statute, particularly when the same term
may have variant meanings for different applications of
the statute. See Standard Oil Co. v. Johnson, 316 U.S.
481, 483.[339 U.S. 679] Of course the statutory meaning
in the context of the entire Natural Gas Act may not be
irrelevant. In remanding the case we do not mean to
foreclose this line of inquiry.3
In respect to Magnolia, the judgment of the Court of
Appeals is vacated and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. As to
Skelly and Stanolind, we reverse the judgment with
directions that the cause be dismissed.