Gregory Corliss appeals from the district court's orders
granting summary judgment in favor of Jann Wenner
on the right to possess ninety-six gold coins unearthed
by Anderson and Corliss on Wenner's property and in
favor of Larry Anderson on a promissory note signed by
Corliss. We affirm.
I.
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL
BACKGROUND
A. The Gold Coins
In the fall of 1996, Jann Wenner hired Anderson
Asphalt Paving to construct a driveway on his ranch in
Blaine County. Larry Anderson, the owner of Anderson
Asphalt Paving, and his employee, Gregory Corliss,
were excavating soil for the driveway when they
unearthed a glass jar containing paper wrapped rolls of
gold coins. Anderson and Corliss collected, cleaned, and
inventoried the gold pieces dating from 1857 to 1914.1
The coins themselves weighed about four pounds.
Anderson and Corliss agreed to split the gold coins
between themselves, with Anderson retaining
possession of all the coins. At some point Anderson and
Corliss argued over ownership of the coins and
Anderson fired Corliss. Anderson later gave possession
of the coins to Wenner in exchange for indemnification
on any claim Corliss might have against him regarding
the coins.
Corliss sued Anderson and Wenner for possession of
some or all of the coins. Wenner, defending both
himself and Anderson, filed a motion for summary
judgment. The facts, except whether Corliss found all or
just some of the gold coins without Anderson's help, are
not in dispute. All parties agree that the coins were
unearthed during excavation by Anderson and Corliss
for a driveway on Wenner's ranch, that the coins had
been protected in paper tube rolls and buried in a glass
jar estimated to be about seventy years old. Following a
hearing on Wenner's motion for summary judgment,
the district court declined to grant the motion and
allowed approximately five months for additional
discovery. Six months later the court held a status
conference at which counsel for Wenner and Anderson
asked the court to rule on Wenner's motion and counsel
for [34 P.3d 1103] Corliss did not object. No new facts
were offered.
The district court then entered a memorandum decision
stating that the "finders keepers" rule of treasure trove
had not been previously adopted in Idaho, that it was
not a part of the common law of England incorporated
into Idaho law at the time of statehood by statute, and
that the coins, having been carefully concealed for
safekeeping, fit within the legal classification of mislaid
property, to which the right of possession goes to the
land owner. Alternatively, the court ruled that the coins,
like the topsoil being excavated, were a part of the
property owned by Wenner and that Anderson and
Corliss were merely Wenner's employees. Corliss
appeals.
B. The Promissory Note
After agreeing to split the gold coins, Corliss obtained a
personal loan of nearly $9,000 from Anderson and
signed a promissory note in which he pledged half of the
coins as collateral. Sometime later Corliss and Anderson
made a notation that the total amount owed on the note
was $11,970, due April 1, 1997, with no further interest.
Corliss offered to pay off the promissory note in
exchange for half of the gold coins, but Anderson
refused. Anderson demanded unconditional payment on
the note. After Corliss sued Anderson and Wenner,
Anderson counterclaimed against Corliss for judgment
on the promissory note.
Following the grant of summary judgment in favor of
Wenner, Anderson filed a motion for summary
judgment on the note. Thereafter the district court
granted judgment on Anderson's motion in the amount
of $17,233.36, consisting of the $11,970 in principal,
$1,695.36 in accrued interest from the date of demand,
plus $3,568 in attorney fees and costs. Corliss appeals.
II.
STANDARD OF REVIEW
Summary judgment is proper only when there is no
genuine issue of material fact and the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. I.R.C.P. 56(c);
Dunham v. Hackney Airpark, Inc., 133 Idaho 613, 616,
990 P.2d 1224, 1227 (Ct.App.1999) (citing Edwards v.
Conchemco, Inc., 111 Idaho 851, 852, 727 P.2d 1279,
1280 (Ct.App.1986)). In order to determine whether
judgment should be entered as a matter of law, the trial
court must review the pleadings, depositions, affidavits,
and admissions on file. I.R.C.P. 56(c).
In general, a party opposing summary judgment is
entitled to favorable inferences from the underlying
facts. See Tolmie Farms v. J.R. Simplot Co., Inc., 124
Idaho 607, 609, 862 P.2d 299, 301 (1993). In this case,
we note that none of the parties requested a jury trial,
thus the court was to be the trier of fact. Furthermore,
at a status conference, held after allowing the
completion of discovery into the antiquity of the coins,
counsel for Wenner and Anderson stated that the case
was ready for summary judgment. Counsel for Corliss
stated that he had nothing to add to the record. "When
the evidentiary facts are not disputed and the judge
rather than the jury will be the ultimate trier of fact, the
judge may draw the inferences he or she deems most
probable since the judge alone would be responsible for
drawing such inferences from the same facts at trial."
Dunham, 133 Idaho at 616, 990 P.2d at 1227. Therefore,
the court in this case was entitled to draw all reasonable
inferences from the facts presented.
III.
LAW APPLICABLE TO DETERMINING
THE RIGHTFUL POSSESSOR OF THE GOLD
COINS
A. Standard Applicable To Review Of The District
Court's Choice Of Law
This is a case of first impression in Idaho, the central
issue being the proper rule to apply in characterizing the
gold coins found by Corliss and Anderson on Wenner's
property. The major distinctions between
characterizations of found property turn on questions of
fact, i.e., an analysis of the facts and circumstances in an
effort to divine the intent of the true owner at the time
he or she parted with the property. See generally 1
Am.Jur.2d Abandoned, Lost and Unclaimed Property §§
1-14 (1994). The material facts and circumstances
surrounding the discovery of the gold coins are not in
dispute. However, [34 P.3d 1104] the characterization of
that property, in light of these facts, is a question of law
over which we exercise free review. Schley v. Couch,
155 Tex. 195, 284 S.W.2d 333, 336 (1955) (While the
character of property is determined from all the facts
and circumstances in the particular case of the property
found, the choice among categories of found property is
a question of law.); see also Batra v. Batra, 135 Idaho
388, 392, 17 P.3d 889, 893 (Ct.App.2001) (The
characterization of an asset as separate or community, in
light of the facts found, is a question of law.). With these
principles in mind we now discuss, in turn, the choice of
categories applicable to the district court's
characterization of the gold coins found by Anderson
and Corliss, recognizing that the choice of
characterization of found property determines its
rightful possessor as between the finder and landowner.
B. Choice Of Categories
At common law all found property is generally
categorized in one of five ways. See Benjamin v. Lindner
Aviation, Inc., 534 N.W.2d 400 (Iowa 1995); see also
36A C.J.S. Finding Lost Goods § 5 (1961); 1 Am.Jur.2d,
Abandoned, Lost, Etc., § 10 (1994). Those categories
are:
ABANDONED PROPERTY—that which the owner has
discarded or voluntarily forsaken with the intention of
terminating his ownership, but without vesting
ownership in any other person. Terry v. Lock, 343 Ark.
452, 37 S.W.3d 202, 206 (2001);
LOST PROPERTY—that property which the owner has
involuntarily and unintentionally parted with through
neglect, carelessness, or inadvertence and does not know
the whereabouts. Id; Ritz v. Selma United Methodist
Church, 467 N.W.2d 266 (Iowa 1991);
MISLAID PROPERTY—that which the owner has
intentionally set down in a place where he can again
resort to it, and then forgets where he put it. Terry, 37
S.W.3d at 206;
TREASURE TROVE—a category exclusively for gold or
silver in coin, plate, bullion, and sometimes its paper
money equivalents, found concealed in the earth or in a
house or other private place. Id. Treasure trove carries
with it the thought of antiquity, i.e., that the treasure
has been concealed for so long as to indicate that the
owner is probably dead or unknown. 1 Am. Jur.2d
Abandoned, Lost, Etc., § 8 (1994);
EMBEDDED PROPERTY—that personal property
which has become a part of the natural earth, such as
pottery, the sunken wreck of a steamship, or a rottedaway
sack of gold-bearing quartz rock buried or partially
buried in the ground. See Chance v. Certain Artifacts
Found and Salvaged from the Nashville, 606 F.Supp. 801
(S.D.Ga.1984); Ferguson v. Ray, 44 Or. 557, 77 P. 600
(1904).
Under these doctrines, the finder of lost or abandoned
property and treasure trove acquires a right to possess
the property against the entire world but the rightful
owner regardless of the place of finding. Terry, 37
S.W.3d at 206. The finder of mislaid property is
required to turn it over to the owner of the premises
who has the duty to safeguard the property for the true
owner. Id. Possession of embedded property goes to
owner of the land on which the property was found.
Allred v. Biegel, 240 Mo.App. 818, 219 S.W.2d 665
(1949) (citing Elwes v. Brigg Gas Co, 33 Ch. D. 562
(Eng.1886)); 1 Am.Jur.2d Abandoned, Lost, Etc., § 29.
One of the major distinctions between these various
categories is that only lost property necessarily involves
an element of involuntariness. Campbell v. Cochran,
416 A.2d 211, 221 (Del.Super.Ct.1980). The four
remaining categories involve voluntary and intentional
acts by the true owner in placing the property where
another eventually finds it. Id. However, treasure trove,
despite not being lost or abandoned property, is treated
as such in that the right to possession is recognized to be
in the finder rather than the premises owner.
C. Discussion And Analysis
On appeal, Corliss argues that the district court should
have interpreted the undisputed facts and circumstances
surrounding of the placement of the coins in the ground
to indicate that the gold coins were either lost,
abandoned, or treasure trove. [34 P.3d 1105] Wenner
argues that the property was properly categorized as
either embedded or mislaid property.
As with most accidentally discovered buried treasure,
the history of the original ownership of the coins is
shrouded in mystery and obscured by time. The coins
had been wrapped in paper, like coins from a bank, and
buried in a glass jar, apparently for safekeeping. Based
on these circumstances, the district court determined
that the coins were not abandoned because the
condition in which the coins were found evidenced an
intent to keep them safe, not an intent to voluntarily
relinquish all possessory interest in them. The district
court also implicitly rejected the notion that the coins
were lost, noting that the coins were secreted with care
in a specific place to protect them from the elements and
from other people until such time as the original owner
might return for them. There is no indication that the
coins came to be buried through neglect, carelessness, or
inadvertence. Accordingly, the district court properly
concluded, as a matter of law, that the coins were
neither lost nor abandoned.
The district court then determined that the modern
trend favored characterizing the coins as property either
embedded in the earth or mislaid—under which the
right of possession goes to the landowner—rather than
treasure trove—under which the right of possession goes
to the finder. Although accepted by a number of states
prior to 1950, the modern trend since then, as illustrated
by decisions of the state and federal courts, is decidedly
against recognizing the "finders keepers" rule of treasure
trove. See, e.g., Klein v. Unidentified, Wrecked &
Abandoned Sailing Vessel, 758 F.2d 1511 (11th
Cir.1985) (treasure and artifacts from a sunken sailing
ship properly characterized as embedded property); Ritz,
467 N.W.2d 266 (silver coins and currency dated prior
to 1910 and 1928 gold certificates buried in cans and jars
under a garage floor classified as mislaid property);
Morgan v. Wiser, 711 S.W.2d 220 (Tenn.Ct.App.1985)
(gold coins found buried in an iron pot properly
characterized as embedded property).
Corliss argues that the district court erred in deciding
that the law of treasure trove should not apply in Idaho.
However, the doctrine of treasure trove has never been
adopted in this state. Idaho Code § 73-116 provides:
"[t]he common law of England, so far as it is not
repugnant to, or inconsistent with, the constitution or
laws of the United States, in all cases not provided for in
these compiled laws, is the rule of decision in all courts
of this state." Nevertheless, the history of the "finders
keepers" rule was not a part of the common law of
England at the time the colonies gained their
independence. Rather, the doctrine of treasure trove
was created to determine a rightful possessor of buried
Roman treasures discovered in feudal times. See
Leeanna Izuel, Property Owner's Constructive
Possession of Treasure Trove: Rethinking the Finders
Keepers Rule, 38 U.C.L.A. L.Rev. 1659, 1666-67 (1991).
And while the common law initially awarded the
treasure to the finder, the crown, as early as the year
1130, exercised its royal prerogative to take such
property for itself. Id. Only after the American colonies
gained their independence from England did some states
grant possession of treasure trove to the finder. Id.
Thus, it does not appear that the "finders keepers" rule
of treasure trove was a part of the common law of
England as defined by Idaho Code § 73-116. We hold
that the district court correctly determined that I.C. §
73-116 does not require the treasure trove doctrine to
be adopted in Idaho.
Additionally, we conclude that the rule of treasure trove
is of dubious heritage and misunderstood application,
inconsistent with our values and traditions. The danger
of adopting the doctrine of treasure trove is laid out in
Morgan, 711 S.W.2d at 222-23:
[We] find the rule with respect to treasuretrove to be out of
harmony with modern notions of fair play. The common-law rule
of treasure-trove invites trespassers to roam at large over the
property of others with their metal detecting devices and to dig
wherever such devices tell them property might be found. If the
discovery happens to fit the definition of treasure-trove, the
trespasser may claim it as his own. To paraphrase another court:
The mind refuses consent to the proposition that one may go upon
the lands of another and dig up and take away anything he [34 P.3d
1106] discovers there which does not belong to the owner of the
land. [citation omitted]
The invitation to trespassers inherent in the rule with respect to
treasure-trove is repugnant to the common law rules dealing with
trespassers in general. The common-law made a trespass an
actionable wrong without the necessity of showing any damage
therefrom. Because a trespass often involved a breach of the peace
and because the law was designed to keep the peace, the common
law dealt severely with trespassers.
. . .
Recognizing the validity of the idea that the discouragement of
trespassers contributes to the preservation of the peace in the
community, we think this state should not follow the common law
rule with respect to treasure-trove. Rather, we adopt the rule
suggested in the concurring opinion in Schley v. Couch, [ . . . ]
which we restate as follows:
Where property is found embedded in the soil under circumstances
repelling the idea that it has been lost, the finder acquires no title
thereto, for the presumption is that the possession of the article
found is in the owner of the locus in quo.
Land ownership includes control over crops on the land,
buildings and appurtenances, soils, and minerals buried
under those soils. The average Idaho landowner would
expect to have a possessory interest in any object
uncovered on his or her property. And certainly the
notion that a trespassing treasure hunter, or a hired
handyman or employee, could or might have greater
possessory rights than a landowner in objects uncovered
on his or her property runs counter to the reasonable
expectations of present-day land ownership.2
There is no reason for a special rule for gold and silver
coins, bullion, or plate as opposed to other property.
Insofar as personal property (money and the like) buried
or secreted on privately owned realty is concerned, the
distinctions between treasure trove, lost property, and
mislaid property are anachronistic and of little value.
The principle point of such distinctions is the intent of
the true owner which, absent some written declaration
indicating such, is obscured in the mists of time and
subject to a great deal of speculation.3
By holding that property classed as treasure trove (gold
or silver coins, bullion, plate) in other jurisdictions is
classed in Idaho as personal property embedded in the
soil, subject to the same limitations as mislaid property,
possession will be awarded to the owner of the soil as a
matter of law. Thus, we craft a simple and reasonable
solution to the problem, discourage trespass, and avoid
the risk of speculating about the true owner's intent
when attempting to infer such from the manner and
circumstances in which an object is found. Additionally,
the true owner,4 if any, will have the opportunity to
recover the property.
D. Conclusion
We hold that the owner of the land has constructive
possession of all personal property secreted in, on or
under his or her land. Accordingly, we adopt the district
court's reasoning and conclusion melding the law of
mislaid property with that of embedded property and
conclude, as a matter of law, that the landowner is
entitled to possession to the exclusion of all but the true
owner, absence a contract between the landowner and
finder.
IV.
THE DISTRICT COURT'S ORDER GRANTING
SUMMARY JUDGMENT IN FAVOR OF ANDERSON
ON THE PROMISSORY NOTE
Because we conclude that the character of the gold coins
and jar are governed [34 P.3d 1107] by a blend of the law
of mislaid property and personal property embedded in
the soil and, thus, that the possessory interest goes to the
landowner, we necessarily conclude that Corliss had no
lawful claim to the gold coins. When Corliss borrowed
$11,970 from Anderson against what he, and Anderson
at the time, erroneously believed would be Corliss' share
of the gold coins, his offer of the gold coins as collateral
was a nullity. Corliss' impairment of collateral defense to
the debt fails because there was in fact no collateral for
the debt.
From our review of the promissory note, it is neither
unclear nor ambiguous. Furthermore, Corliss admitted
in his affidavit filed in response to Anderson's motion
for summary judgment that he borrowed a sum plus
interest totaling $11,970 from Anderson. While the
note does not contain an express due date, I.C. § 28-3-
108(1) fills the gap by providing that a promise to pay is
payable on demand where no time for payment is stated.
Anderson made demand on December 24, 1997. Thus,
the district court correctly ordered summary judgment
in favor of Anderson in the amount of $17,233.36,
consisting of the $11,970 in principal, $1,695.36 in
accrued interest from the date of demand, plus attorney
fees pursuant to I.C. § 12-120(3).
Accordingly, the district court's order granting summary
judgment in favor of Anderson on Corliss' promissory
note is affirmed.