This is a suit for common-law negligence, brought in a
United States District Court in South Carolina because
of diversity of citizenship, 28 U. S. C. § 1332.
Respondent is a cooperative, organized and operating
under the South Carolina Rural Electric Cooperative
Act, S. C. Code, 1952, § 12-1001 et seq., engaged in
distributing electric power to its members, and
extending the availability of power to new users, in rural
areas of the State. Incident to the expansion of its
facilities and services, it had made a contract with R. H.
Bouligny, Inc., whereby the latter was to construct 24.19
miles of new power lines, to rehabilitate and convert to
higher capacity 87.69 miles of existing lines, and to
construct two substations and a breaker station. In the
execution of this contract, petitioner, a citizen of North
Carolina, and a lineman for Bouligny, was seriously
burned when he attempted to make a connection
between the equipment in one of the [356 U.S. 552] new
substations and an outside line through which, by a
mistake on the part of another of Bouligny's employees,
current was running. Petitioner filed a claim against
Bouligny pursuant to the South Carolina Workmen's
Compensation Law, S. C. Code, 1952, § 72-1 et seq.,
under which both Bouligny and respondent operated,
and recovered the full benefits under the Law. He then
brought this suit.
Respondent defended on the ground, among others,
that, since petitioner was injured in the execution of his
true employer's (Bouligny's) contract with respondent to
perform a part of its "trade, business or occupation,"
respondent was petitioner's "statutory employer" and
therefore liable to petitioner under § 72-111 of the
State's Workmen's Compensation Law.1 It would
follow from this that petitioner, by virtue of his election
to proceed against Bouligny, was barred from
proceeding against respondent, either under the statute
or at common law (§§ 72-121, 72-123).2 After all the
evidence was in, the [356 U.S. 553] court granted
petitioner's motion to strike the defense, on the ground
that an activity could not be a part of a firm's "trade,
business or occupation" unless it was being performed
"for somebody else." The court also denied respondent's
motion for a directed verdict and submitted the case to
the jury, which returned a verdict for petitioner in the
amount of $126,786.80.
On appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the
Fourth Circuit found the District Court's construction
of § 72-111 unsupportable under controlling South
Carolina decisions.3 In concluding that respondent had
sustained its defense, the appellate court cited the
following evidence elicited at trial. Respondent
employed a sixteen-man "outside crew," two-thirds of
whose time was spent in such construction work as
building new power lines and extensions; since World
War II the demand for electrical service had been so
great that independent contractors had to be employed
to do much of the necessary construction work. All of
respondent's construction work, regardless of who was
actually performing it, was done under the supervision
of an engineering firm with which respondent has an
engineering service contract. Testimony as to the
construction of substations was not altogether
consistent; however, stated most favorably to
petitioner—and that is the light in which the Court of
Appeals considered it—that evidence was to the effect
[356 U.S. 554] that respondent had with its own facilities
constructed three substations, although it had built none
of the six it was operating at the time petitioner was
injured, nor was respondent at that time employing
personnel capable of constructing substations. The
construction work in connection with which petitioner
was injured was clearly among the functions respondent
was empowered to perform by the statute under which
it was organized; moreover, this construction was
necessary to the discharge of respondent's duty to serve
the area in which it operated. Finally, respondent was
the "main actor" in this particular construction project:
it secured the necessary financing; its consulting
engineer prepared the plans (approved by respondent)
and supervised the construction; it purchased the
materials of which the substations were constructed; it
had the responsibility of de-energizing and reenergizing
existing lines that were involved in the work.
From this evidence the Court of Appeals was satisfied
that "there can be no doubt that Blue Ridge was not only
in the business of supplying electricity to rural
communities, but also in the business of constructing
the lines and substations necessary for the distribution
of the product," 238 F.2d 346, 351. The Court of
Appeals, having concluded that respondent's defense
should have been sustained, directed the District Court
to enter judgment for the respondent. The District
Court had decided the question of whether or not
respondent was a statutory employer without
submitting it to the jury. It is not altogether clear
whether it did so because it thought it essentially a
nonjury issue, as it is in the South Carolina courts under
Adams v. Davison-Paxon Co., 230 S.C. 532, 96 S.E.2d
566, or because there was no controverted question of
fact to submit to the jury.
The construction of the state law by the Court of
Appeals is clearly supported by the decisions of the
Supreme Court of South Carolina, and so we need not
rest on the [356 U.S. 555] usual respect to be accorded to
a reading of a local statute by a Federal Court of
Appeals. Estate of Spiegel v. Commissioner, 335 U.S.
701, 708. It is clear from the state cases that a
determination as to whether a defendant is an
"employer" for purposes of § 72-111 will depend upon
the entire circumstances of the relationship between
such defendant and the work being done on its behalf;
no single factor is determinative. Both the approach of
the Court of Appeals and the conclusions that it reached
from the evidence in this case are entirely consistent
with prior declarations of South Carolina law by the
highest court of that State.4
In holding respondent a statutory employer, the Court
of Appeals was giving the South Carolina Workmen's
Compensation Law the liberal construction called for by
the Supreme Court of that State. In Yeomans v.
Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 198 S.C. 65, 72, 15 S.E.2d 833,
835, that court said:
"[T]he basic purpose of the Compensation Act is the inclusion of
employers and employees, and not their exclusion; and we add that
doubts of jurisdiction must be resolved in favor of inclusion rather
than exclusion."
It would be short-sighted to overlook the fact that
exclusion of an employer in a specific case such as this
one [356 U.S. 556] might well have the consequence of
denying any recovery at all to other employees vis-a-vis
this employer and other similarly situated. The Court of
Appeals, through the experienced Judge Soper,
recognized the short-sighted illiberality of yielding to
the temptation of allowing a single recovery for
negligence to stand and do violence to the consistent
and legislatively intended interpretation of the statute in
Berry v. Atlantic Greyhound Lines, 114 F.2d 255, 257:
"It may well be, and possibly this is true in the instant case, that
sometimes a recovery might be had in a common law action for an
amount much larger than the amount which would be received
under a Compensation Act. This, though, is more than balanced by
the many advantages accorded to an injured employee in a
proceeding under a Compensation Act which would not be found
in a common law action."
When, after the evidence was in, petitioner moved to
strike respondent's defense based on § 72-111, the
following colloquy ensued:
"The Court: In the event I overrule your motion, do you
contemplate putting up any testimony in reply? You have that
right, of course. On this point, I mean.
"Mr. Hammer [petitioner's counsel]: We haven't discussed it, but
we are making that motion. I frankly don't know at this point of
any reply that is necessary. I don't know of any evidence in this
case—
.....
"The Court: The reason I am making that inquiry as to whether you
intend to put up any more testimony in the event I overrule your
motion, counsel [356 U.S. 557] may wish to move for a directed
verdict on that ground since it is a question of law. But that is his
prerogative after all the evidence is in. Of course, he can't move for
a directed verdict as long as you have a right to reply.
"Mr. Hammer: We are moving at this time in the nature of a
voluntary dismissal.
"The Court: You move to dismiss that defense?
"Mr. Hammer: Yes, sir, at this stage of the game."
After argument by counsel, the court made its ruling,
granting petitioner's motion. Respondent having
indicated its intention to move for a directed verdict, the
court then said, "I will allow you to include in that
Motion for Directed Verdict your defense which I have
stricken, if you desire. . . ." Respondent's motion was
overruled.
It is apparent that petitioner had no intention of
introducing any evidence on the issue of whether
respondent was his statutory employer and that he was
prepared to—and did—submit the issue to the court on
that basis. Clearly petitioner cannot be said to have
relied upon, and thus to have been misled by, the court's
erroneous construction of the law, for it was before the
court had disclosed its view of the law that petitioner
made apparent his willingness to submit the issue to it
on the basis of respondent's evidence. If petitioner could
have cast any doubt on that evidence or could have
brought in any other matter relevant to the issue, it was
his duty to bring it forward before the issue was
submitted to the court. For counsel to withhold
evidence on an issue submitted for decision until after
that issue has been resolved against him would be an
abuse of the judicial process that this Court surely
should not countenance, however strong the
philanthropic appeal in a particular case. Nor does [356
U.S. 558] it appear that petitioner had any such "game"
in mind. He gave not the slightest indication of an
intention to introduce any additional evidence, no
matter how the court might decide the issue. It seems
equally clear that, had the trial court decided the
issue—on any construction —in favor of the respondent,
the petitioner was prepared to rely solely upon his right
of appeal.
We are not to read the record as though we are making
an independent examination of the trial proceedings.
We are sitting in judgment on the Court of Appeals'
review of the record. That court, including Chief Judge
Parker and Judge Soper, two of the most experienced
and esteemed circuit judges in the federal judiciary,
interpreted the record as it did in light of its knowledge
of local practice and of the ways of local lawyers. In
ordering judgment entered for respondent, it necessarily
concluded, as a result of its critical examination of the
record, that petitioner's counsel chose to have the issue
decided on the basis of the record as it then stood. The
determination of the Court of Appeals can properly be
reversed only if it is found that it was baseless. Even
granting that the record is susceptible of two
interpretations, it is to disregard the relationship of this
Court of the Courts of Appeals, especially as to their
function in appeals in diversity cases, to substitute our
view for theirs.
The order of the Court of Appeals that the District
Court enter judgment for the respondent is amply
sustained on either theory as to whether or not the issue
was one for the court to decide. If the question is for the
court, the Court of Appeals has satisfactorily resolved it
in accordance with state decisions. And if, on the other
hand, the issue is such that it would have to be
submitted to the jury if there were any crucial facts in
controversy, both the District Court and the Court of
Appeals agreed that there was no conflict as to the
relevant [356 U.S. 559] evidence—not, at any rate, if such
inconsistency as existed was resolved in favor of
petitioner. According to the governing view of South
Carolina law, as given us by the Court of Appeals, that
evidence would clearly have required the District Court
to grant a directed verdict to the respondent.
Accordingly, I would affirm the judgment.