The testatrix died domiciled in Florida. Her will, made
after she had acquired a domicile in Florida, was
probated there. Prior to the time she established a
domicile in Florida she executed a trust instrument in
Delaware. By its terms she was to receive the income
during her life. On her death the principal and
undistributed income were to go as provided in any
power of appointment or, failing that, in her last will
and testament.
After she had become domiciled in Florida she executed
a power of appointment; and she also provided in her
will that if the power of appointment had not been
effectively exercised, the property under the trust,
consisting of intangibles, should pass to certain
designated trusts.
The Florida court held that the power of appointment
was testamentary in character and not being a valid
testamentary disposition for lack of the requisite
witnesses, failed as a will under Florida law. Therefore
the property passed under the will. 100 So.2d 378.
Distribution of the assets of the estate could not be made
without determining the validity of the power of
appointment. The power of appointment, being
integrated with the will, was as much subject to
construction and interpretation by the Florida court as
the will itself. Of course one not a party or privy to the
Florida proceedings is not bound by it and can
separately litigate [357 U.S. 263] the right to assets in
other States. See Riley v. New York Trust Co., 315 U.S.
343; Baker v. Baker, Eccles & Co., 242 U.S. 394. But we
have no such situation here. The trustee of the trust was
in privity with the deceased. She was the settlor; and
under the trust, the trustee was to do her bidding. That
is to say, the trustee, though managing the res during
the life of the settlor, was on her death to transfer the
property to such persons as the settlor designated by her
power of appointment or by her last will and testament,
or, failing that, to designated classes of persons. So far as
the present controversy is concerned the trustee was
purely and simply a stakeholder or an agent holding
assets of the settlor to dispose of as she designated. It
had a community of interest with the deceased. I see no
reason therefore why Florida could not say that the
deceased and her executrix may stand in judgment for
the trustee so far as the disposition of the property
under the power of appointment and the will is
concerned. The question in cases of this kind is whether
the procedure is fair and just, considering the interest of
the parties. Cf. Hansberry v. Lee, 311 U.S. 32; Mullane
v. Central Hanover Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306, 312-317.
Florida has such a plain and compelling relation to these
out-of-state intangibles (cf. Curry v. McCanless, 307
U.S. 357), and the nexus between the settlor and trustee
is so close, as to give Florida the right to make the
controlling determination even without personal service
over the trustee and those who claim under it. We must
remember this is not a suit to impose liability on the
Delaware trustee or on any other absent person. It is
merely a suit to determine interests in those intangibles.
Cf. Mullane v. Central Hanover Trust Co., supra, at 313.
Under closely analogous facts the California Supreme
Court held in Atkinson v. Superior Court, 49 Cal.2d
338, 316 P.2d 960, that California had [357 U.S. 264]
jurisdiction over an absent trustee. I would hold the
same here. The decedent was domiciled in Florida; most
of the legatees are there; and the absent trustee through
whom the others claim was an agency so close to the
decedent as to be held to be privy with her—in other
words so identified in interest with her as to represent
the same legal right.