I agree with and join in Part I of the Court's opinion
relating to pendent jurisdiction. As to Part II, I refrain
from joining the Court's speculations about the uses to
which it may put the pre-emption doctrine in similar
future cases. The holding in Part III that the NorrisLaGuardia
Act requires reversal here seems to me
correct, but my interpretation of the statute is different
and somewhat narrower than that of the Court.
The statutory requirement for union liability in this case
is "clear proof of actual participation in, or actual [383
U.S. 743] authorization of . . . [the unlawful acts], or of
ratification of such acts after actual knowledge thereof."1
The Court construes this provision as fixing a new test
of the quantum of proof, somewhere between ordinary
civil and criminal standards. I do not think the
admittedly vague legislative history imports this reading,
and I believe it introduces a revealing inconsistency
since the new test could not be applied to criminal cases,
concededly governed by the same statutory language,
without standing the statute on its head by having it
reduce present quantum-of-proof requirements in
criminal cases, that is, proof "beyond a reasonable
doubt." The best reading I can give the statute, absent
more light than has been shed upon it in this case, is one
directing it against a particular type of inferential proof
of authority or ratification unacceptable to those who
framed the law. For me, the gist of the statute is that in
the usual instance a union's carrying on of its normal
strike functions and its failure to take affirmative action
to dispel misconduct are not in themselves proof of
authorization or ratification of the wrongdoing.2
[383 U.S. 744] In the present case, apart from a few quite
ambiguous episodes, there was nothing to bring the
violence home to the union except, as the Sixth Circuit
stressed (see p. 741, ante), that the union continued
through its picketing the threat that the earlier violence
would be renewed and did not repudiate the violence or
promise to oppose its renewal. Whatever arguments
could be made for imposing liability in such a situation, I
think it approximates what the statute was designed to
forbid. On this basis, I concur in the reversal.