The Court here holds unconstitutional a Wisconsin
statute permitting garnishment before a judgment has
been obtained against the principal debtor. The law,
however, requires that notice be given to the principal
debtor and authorizes him to present all of his legal
defenses at the regular hearing and trial of the case. The
Wisconsin law is said to violate the "fundamental
principles of due process." Of course the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment contains no
words that indicate that this Court has power to play so
fast and loose with state laws. The arguments the Court
makes to reach what I consider to be its unconstitutional
conclusion, however, show why it strikes down this
state law. It is because it considers a garnishment law of
this kind to be bad state policy, a judgment I think the
state legislature, not this Court, has power to make. The
Court shows it believes the garnishment policy to be a "
`most inhuman doctrine' "; that it " `compels the wage
earner, trying to keep his family together, to be driven
below the poverty level' "; that " `in a vast number of
cases the debt is a fraudulent one, saddled on a poor
ignorant person who is trapped in an easy credit
nightmare, in which he is charged double for something
he could not pay for even if the proper price was called
for, and then hounded into giving up his pound of flesh,
and being fired besides.' "
The foregoing emotional rhetoric might be very
appropriate for Congressmen to make against some
phases of garnishment laws. Indeed, the quoted
statements were made by Congressmen during a debate
over a proposed 
[395 U.S. 345]
 federal garnishment law.
The arguments would also be appropriate for
Wisconsin's legislators to make against that State's
garnishment laws. But made in a Court opinion, holding
Wisconsin's law unconstitutional, they amount to what
I believe to be a plain, judicial usurpation of state
legislative power to decide what the State's laws shall be.
There is not one word in our Federal Constitution or in
any of its Amendments and not a word in the reports of
that document's passage from which one can draw the
slightest inference that we have authority thus to try to
supplement or strike down the State's selection of its
own policies. The Wisconsin law is simply nullified by
this Court as though the Court had been granted a
super-legislative power to step in and frustrate policies
of States adopted by their own elected legislatures. The
Court thus steps back into the due process philosophy
which brought on President Roosevelt's Court fight.
Arguments can be made for outlawing loan sharks and
installment sales companies but such decisions, I think,
should be made by state and federal legislators, and not
by this Court.
This brings me to the short concurring opinion of my
Brother HARLAN, which makes "explicit the precise
basis" on which he joins the Court's opinion. That basis
is:
"The `property' of which petitioner has been deprived is the use of
the garnished portion of her wages during the interim period
between the garnishment and the culmination of the main suit.
Since this deprivation cannot be characterized as de minimis, she
must be accorded the usual requisites of procedural due process:
notice and a prior hearing."
Every argument implicit in this summary statement of
my Brother HARLAN's views has been, in my
judgment, satisfactorily answered in the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin in this case—an
outstanding opinion 
[395 U.S. 346]
 on constitutional
law. 37 Wis.2d 163, 154 N.W.2d 259. That opinion
shows that petitioner was not required to wait until the
"culmination of the main suit," that is, the suit between
the creditor and the petitioner. In fact the case now
before us was not a final determination of the merits of
that controversy but was, in accordance with well-
established state court procedure, the result of a motion
made by the petitioner to dismiss the garnishment
proceedings. With reference to my Brother HARLAN's
statement that petitioner's deprivation could not be
characterized as de minimis, it is pertinent to note that
the garnishment was served on her and her employer on
the same day, November 21, 1966; that she, without
waiting for a trial on the merits, filed a motion to
dismiss the garnishment on December 23, 1966, which
motion was denied by the Circuit Court on April 18,
1967; and that it is that judgment which is before us
today. The amount of her wages held up by the
garnishment was $31.59. The amount of interest on the
wages withheld even if computed at 10% annually would
have been about $3. Whether that would be classified as
de minimis I do not know and in fact it is not material to
know for the decision of this case.
In the motion to dismiss, petitioner, according to the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin, asserted a "number of
grounds based on injustices and deprivations which
have been, or are likely to be, suffered by others, but
which she has not personally experienced." 37 Wis.2d
163, 166, 154 N.W.2d 259, 261. The court went further
and pointed out that under Wisconsin law the court
would not strike down a law as unconstitutional on the
ground that some person other than the challenger of
that law might in the future be injured by its
unconstitutional part. It would seem, therefore, that the
great number of our cases holding that we do not
determine the constitutionality 
[395 U.S. 347]
 of state
statutes where the judgment on them was based on state
law would prevent our passing on this case at all.
The indebtedness of petitioner was evidenced by a
promissory note, but petitioner's affidavit in support of
the motion to dismiss, according to the Wisconsin
Supreme Court contained no allegation that she is not
indebted thereon to the plaintiff. Of course if it had
alleged that, or if it had shown in some other way that
this was not a good-faith lawsuit against her, the
Wisconsin opinion shows that this could have disposed
of the whole case on the summary motion.
Another ground of unconstitutionality, according to the
state court, was that the Act permitted a defendant to
post a bond and secure the release of garnished property
and that this provision denied equal protection of the
law "to persons of low income." With reference to this
ground, the Wisconsin court said:
"Appellant has made no showing that she is a person of low income
and unable to post a bond." 37 Wis. 2d, at 167, 154 N. W. 2d, at
261.
Another ground of unconstitutionality urged was that
since many employers discharge garnished employees
for being unreliable, the law threatened the gainful
employment of many wage earners. This contention the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin satisfactorily answered by
saying that petitioner had "made no showing that her
own employer reacted in this manner."
Another ground challenging the state act was that it
affords 10 days' time to a plaintiff to serve the garnishee
summons and complaint on the defendant after service
of the summons on the garnishee. This, of course, she
could not raise. The Wisconsin Supreme Court's answer
to this was that petitioner was served on the same day as
the garnishee.
[395 U.S. 348]
 The state court then pointed out that the
garnishment proceedings did not involve "any final
determination of the title to a defendant's property, but
merely preserve[d] the status quo thereof pending
determination of the principal action." 37 Wis. 2d, at
169, 154 N. W. 2d, at 262. The court then relied on
McInnes v. McKay, 127 Me. 110, 141 A. 699. That suit
related to a Maine attachment law which, of course, is
governed by the same rule as garnishment law. See
"garnishment," Bouvier's Law Dictionary; see also
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714. The Maine law was
subjected to practically the same challenges that Brother
HARLAN and the Court raise against this Wisconsin
law. About that law the Supreme Court of Maine said:
"But, although an attachment may, within the broad meaning of the
preceding definition, deprive one of property, yet conditional and
temporary as it is, and part of the legal remedy and procedure by
which the property of a debtor may be taken in satisfaction of the
debt, if judgment be recovered, we do not think it is the deprivation
of property contemplated by the Constitution. And if it be, it is not
a deprivation without `due process of law' for it is a part of a
process, which during its proceeding gives notice and opportunity
for hearing and judgment of some judicial or other authorized
tribunal. The requirements of `due process of law' and `law of the
land' are satisfied." 127 Me. 110, 116, 141 A. 699, 702-703.
This Court did not even consider the challenge to the
Maine law worthy of a Court opinion but affirmed it in
a per curiam opinion, 279 U.S. 820, on the authority of
two prior decisions of this Court. See also Standard Oil
Co. v. Superior Court of New Castle County, 44 Del.
[395 U.S. 349]
 538, 62 A.2d 454, appeal dismissed, 336
U.S. 930; Harris v. Balk, 198 U.S. 215, 222, 227-228.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in upholding the
constitutionality of its law also cited the following
statement of our Court made in Rothschild v. Knight,
184 U.S. 334, 341:
"To what actions the remedy of attachment may be given is for the
legislature of a State to determine and its courts to decide . . . ."
Accord, Huron Holding Corp. v. Lincoln Mine
Operating Co., 312 U.S. 183, 193.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin properly pointed out:
"The ability to place a lien upon a man's property, such as to
temporarily deprive him of its beneficial use, without any judicial
determination of probable cause dates back not only to medieval
England but also to Roman times." 37 Wis. 2d, at 171, 154 N. W.
2d, at 264.
The State Supreme Court then went on to point out a
statement made by Mr. Justice Holmes in Jackman v.
Rosenbaum Co., 260 U.S. 22, 31:
"The Fourteenth Amendment, itself a historical product, did not
destroy history for the States and substitute mechanical
compartments of law all exactly alike. If a thing has been practiced
for two hundred years by common consent, it will need a strong
case for the Fourteenth Amendment to affect it, as is well illustrated
by Ownbey v. Morgan, 256 U.S. 94, 104, 112."
The Ownbey case, which was one of the two cited by
this Court in its per curiam affirmance of McInnes v.
McKay, supra, sustained the constitutionality of a
Delaware attachment law. And see Byrd v. Rector, 112
W.Va. 192, 163 S. E. 845.
[395 U.S. 350]
 I can only conclude that the Court is today
overruling a number of its own decisions and
abandoning the legal customs and practices in this
country with reference to attachments and
garnishments wholly on the ground that the
garnishment laws of this kind are based on unwise
policies of government which might some time in the
future do injury to some individuals. In the first
sentence of the argument in her brief, petitioner urges
that this Wisconsin law "is contrary to public policy";
the Court apparently finds that a sufficient basis for
holding it unconstitutional. This holding savors too
much of the "Natural Law," "Due Process," "Shock-the-
conscience" test of what is constitutional for me to agree
to the decision. See my dissent in Adamson v.
California, 332 U.S. 46, 68.
ADDENDUM.
The latest statement by my Brother HARLAN on the
power of this Court under the Due Process Clause to
hold laws unconstitutional on the ground of the Justices'
view of "fundamental fairness" makes it necessary for
me to add a few words in order that the differences
between us be made absolutely clear. He now says that
the Court's idea of "fundamental fairness" is derived "not
alone . . . from the specifics of the Constitution, but also
. . . from concepts which are part of the Anglo-
American legal heritage." This view is consistent with
that expressed by Mr. Justice Frankfurter in Rochin v.
California that due process was to be determined by
"those canons of decency and fairness which express the
notions of justice of English-speaking peoples. . . ." 342
U.S. 165, 169. In any event, my Brother HARLAN's
"Anglo-American legal heritage" is no more definite
than the "notions of justice of English-speaking peoples"
or the shock-the-conscience test. All of these so-called
tests represent nothing more or less than an implicit
adoption 
[395 U.S. 351]
 of a Natural Law concept which
under our system leaves to judges alone the power to
decide what the Natural Law means. These so-called
standards do not bind judges within any boundaries that
can be precisely marked or defined by words for holding
laws unconstitutional. On the contrary, these tests leave
them wholly free to decide what they are convinced is
right and fair. If the judges, in deciding whether laws are
constitutional, are to be left only to the admonitions of
their own consciences, why was it that the Founders
gave us a written Constitution at all?