The question for decision is whether a State that
terminates public assistance payments to a particular
recipient without affording him the opportunity for an
evidentiary hearing prior to termination denies the
recipient procedural due process in violation of the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
This action was brought in the District Court for the
Southern District of New York by residents of New 
[397
U.S. 256]
 York City receiving financial aid under the
federally assisted program of Aid to Families with
Dependent Children (AFDC) or under New York State's
general Home Relief program.
1 
 Their complaint alleged
that the New York State and New York City officials
administering these programs terminated, or were about
to terminate, such aid without prior notice and hearing,
thereby denying them due process of law.
2 
 At the time
[397 U.S. 257]
 the suits were filed there was no
requirement of prior notice or hearing of any kind
before termination of financial aid. However, the State
and city adopted procedures for notice and hearing after
the suits were brought, and the plaintiffs, appellees here,
then challenged the constitutional adequacy of those
procedures.
The State Commissioner of Social Services amended the
State Department of Social Services' Official Regulations
to require that local social services officials proposing to
discontinue or suspend a recipient's financial aid do so
according to a procedure that conforms to either
subdivision (a) or subdivision (b) of 
§
 351.26 of the
regulations as amended.
3 
 The City of New York 
[397
U.S. 258]
 elected to promulgate a local procedure
according to subdivision (b). That subdivision, so far as
here pertinent, provides that the local procedure must
include the giving of notice to the recipient of the
reasons for a proposed discontinuance or suspension at
least seven days prior to its effective date, with notice
also that upon request the recipient may have the
proposal reviewed by a local welfare official holding a
position superior to that of the supervisor who
approved the proposed discontinuance or suspension,
and, further, that the recipient may submit, for purposes
of the review, a written statement to demonstrate why
his grant should not be discontinued or suspended. The
decision by the reviewing official whether to
discontinue or suspend aid must be made expeditiously,
with written notice of the decision to the recipient. The
section further expressly provides that "[a]ssistance shall
not be discontinued or suspended prior to the date such
notice of decision is sent to the recipient and his
representative, if any, or prior to the proposed effective
date of discontinuance or suspension, whichever occurs
later."
Pursuant to subdivision (b), the New York City
Department of Social Services promulgated Procedure
No. 68-18. A caseworker who has doubts about the
recipient's continued eligibility must first discuss them
with the recipient. If the caseworker concludes that the
recipient is no longer eligible, he recommends
termination 
[397 U.S. 259]
 of aid to a unit supervisor. If
the latter concurs, he sends the recipient a letter stating
the reasons for proposing to terminate aid and notifying
him that within seven days he may request that a higher
official review the record, and may support the request
with a written statement prepared personally or with
the aid of an attorney or other person. If the reviewing
official affirms the determination of ineligibility, aid is
stopped immediately and the recipient is informed by
letter of the reasons for the action. Appellees' challenge
to this procedure emphasizes the absence of any
provisions for the personal appearance of the recipient
before the reviewing official, for oral presentation of
evidence, and for confrontation and cross-examination
of adverse witnesses.
4 
 However, the letter does inform
the recipient that he may request a post-termination
"fair hearing."
5 
 This is a proceeding before an
independent 
[397 U.S. 260]
 state hearing officer at
which the recipient may appear personally, offer oral
evidence, confront and cross-examine the witnesses
against him, and have a record made of the hearing. If
the recipient prevails at the "fair hearing" he is paid all
funds erroneously withheld.
6 
 HEW Handbook, pt. IV,
§§
 6200-6500; 18 NYCRR 
§§
 84.2-84.23. A recipient
whose aid is not restored by a "fair hearing" decision
may have judicial review. N. Y. Civil Practice Law and
Rules, Art. 78 (1963). The recipient is so notified, 18
NYCRR 
§
 84.16.
I
The constitutional issue to be decided, therefore, is the
narrow one whether the Due Process Clause requires
that the recipient be afforded an evidentiary hearing
before the termination of benefits.
7 
 The District Court
held 
[397 U.S. 261]
 that only a pre-termination
evidentiary hearing would satisfy the constitutional
command, and rejected the argument of the state and
city officials that the combination of the post-
termination "fair hearing" with the informal pre-
termination review disposed of all due process claims.
The court said: "While post-termination review is
relevant, there is one overpowering fact which controls
here. By hypothesis, a welfare recipient is destitute,
without funds or assets. . . . Suffice it to say that to cut
off a welfare recipient in the face of . . . `brutal need'
without a prior hearing of some sort is unconscionable,
unless overwhelming considerations justify it." Kelly v.
Wyman, 294 F.Supp. 893, 899, 900 (1968). The court
rejected the argument that the need to protect the
public's tax revenues supplied the requisite
"overwhelming consideration." "Against the justified
desire to protect public funds must be weighed the
individual's over-powering need in this unique situation
not to be wrongfully deprived of assistance . . . . While
the problem of additional expense must be kept in mind,
it does not justify denying a hearing meeting the
ordinary standards of due process. Under all the
circumstances, we hold that due process requires an
adequate hearing before termination of welfare benefits,
and the fact that there is a later constitutionally fair
proceeding does not alter the result." Id., at 901.
Although state officials were party defendants in the
action, only the Commissioner of Social Services of the
City of New York appealed. We noted probable
jurisdiction, 394 U.S. 971 (1969), to decide important
issues that have been the subject of disagreement in
principle between the three-judge court in the present
case and that convened in Wheeler v. Montgomery, No.
14, post, p. 280, also decided today. We affirm.
Appellant does not contend that procedural due process
is not applicable to the termination of welfare benefits.
[397 U.S. 262]
 Such benefits are a matter of statutory
entitlement for persons qualified to receive them.
8
Their termination involves state action that adjudicates
important rights. The constitutional challenge cannot be
answered by an argument that public assistance benefits
are "a `privilege' and not a `right.' " Shapiro v.
Thompson, 394 U.S. 618, 627 n. 6 (1969). Relevant
constitutional restraints apply as much to the
withdrawal of public assistance benefits as to
disqualification for unemployment compensation,
Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U.S. 398 (1963); or to denial of a
tax exemption, Speiser v. Randall, 357 U.S. 513 (1958);
or to discharge from public employment, Slochower v.
Board of Higher Education, 350 U.S. 551 (1956).
9 
 The
extent to which procedural due process 
[397 U.S. 263]
must be afforded the recipient is influenced by the
extent to which he may be "condemned to suffer
grievous loss," Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee v.
McGrath, 341 U.S. 123, 168 (1951) (Frankfurter, J.,
concurring), and depends upon whether the recipient's
interest in avoiding that loss outweighs the
governmental interest in summary adjudication.
Accordingly, as we said in Cafeteria & Restaurant
Workers Union v. McElroy, 367 U.S. 886, 895 (1961),
"consideration of what procedures due process may
require under any given set of circumstances must begin
with a determination of the precise nature of the
government function involved as well as of the private
interest that has been affected by governmental action."
See also Hannah v. Larche, 363 U.S. 420, 440, 442
(1960).
It is true, of course, that some governmental benefits
may be administratively terminated without affording
the recipient a pre-termination evidentiary hearing.
10
[397 U.S. 264]
 But we agree with the District Court that
when welfare is discontinued, only a pre-termination
evidentiary hearing provides the recipient with
procedural due process. Cf. Sniadach v. Family Finance
Corp., 395 U.S. 337 (1969). For qualified recipients,
welfare provides the means to obtain essential food,
clothing, housing, and medical care.
11 
 Cf. Nash v.
Florida Industrial Commission, 389 U.S. 235, 239
(1967). Thus the crucial factor in this context—a factor
not present in the case of the blacklisted government
contractor, the discharged government employee, the
taxpayer denied a tax exemption, or virtually anyone
else whose governmental entitlements are ended—is that
termination of aid pending resolution of a controversy
over eligibility may deprive an eligible recipient of the
very means by which to live while he waits. Since he
lacks independent resources, his situation becomes
immediately desperate. His need to concentrate upon
finding the means for daily subsistence, in turn,
adversely affects his ability to seek redress from the
welfare bureaucracy.
12
Moreover, important governmental interests are
promoted by affording recipients a pre-termination
evidentiary hearing. From its founding the Nation's
basic 
[397 U.S. 265]
 commitment has been to foster the
dignity and well-being of all persons within its borders.
We have come to recognize that forces not within the
control of the poor contribute to their poverty.
13 
 This
perception, against the background of our traditions,
has significantly influenced the development of the
contemporary public assistance system. Welfare, by
meeting the basic demands of subsistence, can help
bring within the reach of the poor the same
opportunities that are available to others to participate
meaningfully in the life of the community. At the same
time, welfare guards against the societal malaise that
may flow from a widespread sense of unjustified
frustration and insecurity. Public assistance, then, is not
mere charity, but a means to "promote the general
Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves
and our Posterity." The same governmental interests
that counsel the provision of welfare, counsel as well its
uninterrupted provision to those eligible to receive it;
pre-termination evidentiary hearings are indispensable
to that end.
Appellant does not challenge the force of these
considerations but argues that they are outweighed by
countervailing governmental interests in conserving
fiscal and administrative resources. These interests, the
argument goes, justify the delay of any evidentiary
hearing until after discontinuance of the grants.
Summary adjudication protects the public fisc by
stopping payments promptly upon discovery of reason
to believe that a recipient is no longer eligible. Since
most terminations are accepted without challenge,
summary adjudication also conserves both the fisc and
administrative time and energy by reducing the number
of evidentiary hearings actually held.
[397 U.S. 266]
 We agree with the District Court,
however, that these governmental interests are not
overriding in the welfare context. The requirement of a
prior hearing doubtless involves some greater expense,
and the benefits paid to ineligible recipients pending
decision at the hearing probably cannot be recouped,
since these recipients are likely to be judgment-proof.
But the State is not without weapons to minimize these
increased costs. Much of the drain on fiscal and
administrative resources can be reduced by developing
procedures for prompt pre-termination hearings and by
skillful use of personnel and facilities. Indeed, the very
provision for a post-termination evidentiary hearing in
New York's Home Relief program is itself cogent
evidence that the State recognizes the primacy of the
public interest in correct eligibility determinations and
therefore in the provision of procedural safeguards.
Thus, the interest of the eligible recipient in
uninterrupted receipt of public assistance, coupled with
the State's interest that his payments not be erroneously
terminated, clearly outweighs the State's competing
concern to prevent any increase in its fiscal and
administrative burdens. As the District Court correctly
concluded, "[t]he stakes are simply too high for the
welfare recipient, and the possibility for honest error or
irritable misjudgment too great, to allow termination of
aid without giving the recipient a chance, if he so
desires, to be fully informed of the case against him so
that he may contest its basis and produce evidence in
rebuttal." 294 F. Supp., at 904-905.
II
We also agree with the District Court, however, that the
pre-termination hearing need not take the form of a
judicial or quasi-judicial trial. We bear in mind that the
statutory "fair hearing" will provide the recipient 
[397
U.S. 267]
 with a full administrative review.
14
Accordingly, the pre-termination hearing has one
function only: to produce an initial determination of the
validity of the welfare department's grounds for
discontinuance of payments in order to protect a
recipient against an erroneous termination of his
benefits. Cf. Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., 395 U.S.
337, 343 (1969) (HARLAN, J., concurring). Thus, a
complete record and a comprehensive opinion, which
would serve primarily to facilitate judicial review and to
guide future decisions, need not be provided at the pre-
termination stage. We recognize, too, that both welfare
authorities and recipients have an interest in relatively
speedy resolution of questions of eligibility, that they are
used to dealing with one another informally, and that
some welfare departments have very burdensome
caseloads. These considerations justify the limitation of
the pre-termination hearing to minimum procedural
safeguards, adapted to the particular characteristics of
welfare recipients, and to the limited nature of the
controversies to be resolved. We wish to add that we,
no less than the dissenters, recognize the importance of
not imposing upon the States or the Federal
Government in this developing field of law any
procedural requirements beyond those demanded by
rudimentary due process.
"The fundamental requisite of due process of law is the
opportunity to be heard." Grannis v. Ordean, 234 U.S.
385, 394 (1914). The hearing must be "at a meaningful
time and in a meaningful manner." Armstrong v.
Manzo, 380 U.S. 545, 552 (1965). In the present context
these principles require that a recipient have timely and
adequate notice detailing the reasons for a 
[397 U.S. 268]
proposed termination, and an effective opportunity to
defend by confronting any adverse witnesses and by
presenting his own arguments and evidence orally.
These rights are important in cases such as those before
us, where recipients have challenged proposed
terminations as resting on incorrect or misleading
factual premises or on misapplication of rules or policies
to the facts of particular cases.
15
We are not prepared to say that the seven-day notice
currently provided by New York City is constitutionally
insufficient per se, although there may be cases where
fairness would require that a longer time be given. Nor
do we see any constitutional deficiency in the content or
form of the notice. New York employs both a letter and
a personal conference with a caseworker to inform a
recipient of the precise questions raised about his
continued eligibility. Evidently the recipient is told the
legal and factual bases for the Department's doubts. This
combination is probably the most effective method of
communicating with recipients.
The city's procedures presently do not permit recipients
to appear personally with or without counsel before the
official who finally determines continued eligibility.
Thus a recipient is not permitted to present evidence to
that official orally, or to confront or cross-examine
adverse witnesses. These omissions are fatal to the
constitutional adequacy of the procedures.
The opportunity to be heard must be tailored to the 
[397
U.S. 269]
 capacities and circumstances of those who are
to be heard.
16 
 It is not enough that a welfare recipient
may present his position to the decision maker in
writing or secondhand through his caseworker. Written
submissions are an unrealistic option for most
recipients, who lack the educational attainment
necessary to write effectively and who cannot obtain
professional assistance. Moreover, written submissions
do not afford the flexibility of oral presentations; they
do not permit the recipient to mold his argument to the
issues the decision maker appears to regard as
important. Particularly where credibility and veracity
are at issue, as they must be in many termination
proceedings, written submissions are a wholly
unsatisfactory basis for decision. The secondhand
presentation to the decisionmaker by the caseworker
has its own deficiencies; since the caseworker usually
gathers the facts upon which the charge of ineligibility
rests, the presentation of the recipient's side of the
controversy cannot safely be left to him. Therefore a
recipient must be allowed to state his position orally.
Informal procedures will suffice; in this context due
process does not require a particular order of proof or
mode of offering evidence. Cf. HEW Handbook, pt. IV,
§
 6400 (a).
In almost every setting where important decisions turn
on questions of fact, due process requires an
opportunity to confront and cross-examine adverse
witnesses. E. g., ICC v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 227 U.S.
88, 93-94 (1913); Willner v. Committee on Character &
Fitness, 373 U.S. 96, 103-104 (1963). What we said in
[397 U.S. 270]
 Greene v. McElroy, 360 U.S. 474, 496-
497 (1959), is particularly pertinent here:
"Certain principles have remained relatively immutable in our
jurisprudence. One of these is that where governmental action
seriously injures an individual, and the reasonableness of the action
depends on fact findings, the evidence used to prove the
Government's case must be disclosed to the individual so that he
has an opportunity to show that it is untrue. While this is
important in the case of documentary evidence, it is even more
important where the evidence consists of the testimony of
individuals whose memory might be faulty or who, in fact, might be
perjurers or persons motivated by malice, vindictiveness,
intolerance, prejudice, or jealousy. We have formalized these
protections in the requirements of confrontation and cross-
examination. They have ancient roots. They find expression in the
Sixth Amendment . . . . This Court has been zealous to protect these
rights from erosion. It has spoken out not only in criminal cases, . . .
but also in all types of cases where administrative. . . actions were
under scrutiny."
Welfare recipients must therefore be given an
opportunity to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses relied on by the department.
"The right to be heard would be, in many cases, of little
avail if it did not comprehend the right to be heard by
counsel." Powell v. Alabama, 287 U.S. 45, 68-69 (1932).
We do not say that counsel must be provided at the pre-
termination hearing, but only that the recipient must be
allowed to retain an attorney if he so desires. Counsel
can help delineate the issues, present the factual
contentions in an orderly manner, conduct cross-
examination, and generally safeguard the 
[397 U.S. 271]
interests of the recipient. We do not anticipate that this
assistance will unduly prolong or otherwise encumber
the hearing. Evidently HEW has reached the same
conclusion. See 45 CFR 
§
 205.10, 34 Fed. Reg. 1144
(1969); 45 CFR 
§
 220.25, 34 Fed. Reg. 13595 (1969).
Finally, the decisionmaker's conclusion as to a
recipient's eligibility must rest solely on the legal rules
and evidence adduced at the hearing. Ohio Bell Tel. Co.
v. PUC, 301 U.S. 292 (1937); United States v. Abilene &
S. R. Co., 265 U.S. 274, 288-289 (1924). To demonstrate
compliance with this elementary requirement, the
decision maker should state the reasons for his
determination and indicate the evidence he relied on, cf.
Wichita R. & Light Co. v. PUC, 260 U.S. 48, 57-59
(1922), though his statement need not amount to a full
opinion or even formal findings of fact and conclusions
of law. And, of course, an impartial decision maker is
essential. Cf. In re Murchison, 349 U.S. 133 (1955);
Wong Yang Sung v. McGrath, 339 U.S. 33, 45-46
(1950). We agree with the District Court that prior
involvement in some aspects of a case will not
necessarily bar a welfare official from acting as a
decision maker. He should not, however, have
participated in making the determination under review.
Affirmed.