Because the Court's opinion and judgment
improvidently, in my view, call into question important
aspects of the statutes of almost all the States governing
secured transactions and the procedure for repossessing
personal property, I must dissent for the reasons that
follow.
First: It is my view that when the federal actions were
filed in these cases and the respective District [407 U.S.
98] Courts proceeded to judgment there were state court
proceedings in progress. It seems apparent to me that
the judgments should be vacated and the District Courts
instructed to reconsider these cases in the light of the
principles announced in Younger v. Harris, 401 U.S. 37
(1971); Samuels v. Mackell, 401 U.S. 66; Boyle v.
Landry, 401 U.S. 77; and Perez v. Ledesma, 401 U.S. 82.
In No. 70-5039, the Florida statutes provide for the
commencement of an action of replevin, with bond, by
serving a writ summoning the defendant to answer the
complaint. Thereupon the sheriff may seize the
property, subject to repossession by defendant within
three days upon filing of a counterbond, failing which
the property is delivered to plaintiff to await final
judgment in the replevin action. Fla. Stat. Ann. ยง 78.01
et seq. (Supp. 1972-1973). This procedure was attacked
in a complaint filed by appellant Fuentes in the federal
court, alleging that an affidavit in replevin had been filed
by Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. in the Small Claims
Court of Dade County; that a writ of replevin had been
issued pursuant thereto and duly served, together with
the affidavit and complaint; and that a trial date had
been set in the Small Claims Court. Firestone's answer
admitted that the replevin action was pending in the
Small Claims Court and asserted that Mrs. Fuentes,
plaintiff in the federal court and appellant here, had not
denied her default or alleged that she had the right to
possession of the property. Clearly, state court
proceedings were pending, no bad faith or harassment
was alleged, and no irreparable injury appeared that
could not have been averted by raising constitutional
objections in the pending state court proceeding. In this
posture, it would appear that the case should be
reconsidered under Younger v. Harris and companion
cases, which were announced after the District Court's
judgment.
[407 U.S. 99] In No. 70-5138, Pennsylvania Rule of Civil
Procedure 1073 expressly provides that an "[a]ction of
replevin with bond shall be commenced by filing with
the prothonotary a praecipe for a writ of replevin with
bond . . . ." When the writ issues and is served, the
defendant has three days to file a counterbond and
should he care to have a hearing he may file his own
praecipe, in which event the plaintiff must proceed
further in the action by filing and serving his complaint.
In the cases before us, actions in replevin were
commenced in accordance with the rules, and appellee
Sears, Roebuck & Co. urged in the District Court that
plaintiffs had "adequate remedies at law which they
could pursue in the state court proceedings which are
still pending in accordance with the statutes and rules of
Pennsylvania." App. 60. Under Younger v. Harris and
companion cases, the District Court's judgment should
be vacated and the case reconsidered.
Second: It goes without saying that in the typical
installment sale of personal property both seller and
buyer have interests in the property until the purchase
price is fully paid, the seller early in the transaction often
having more at stake than the buyer. Nor is it disputed
that the buyer's right to possession is conditioned upon
his making the stipulated payments and that upon
default the seller is entitled to possession. Finally, there
is no question in these cases that if default is disputed by
the buyer he has the opportunity for a full hearing, and
that if he prevails he may have the property or its full
value as damages.
The narrow issue, as the Court notes, is whether it
comports with due process to permit the seller, pending
final judgment, to take possession of the property
through a writ of replevin served by the sheriff without
affording the buyer opportunity to insist that the seller
establish at a hearing that there is reasonable [407 U.S.
100] basis for his claim of default. The interests of the
buyer and seller are obviously antagonistic during this
interim period: the buyer wants the use of the property
pending final judgment; the seller's interest is to prevent
further use and deterioration of his security. By the
Florida and Pennsylvania laws the property is to all
intents and purposes placed in custody and immobilized
during this time. The buyer loses use of the property
temporarily but is protected against loss; the seller is
protected against deterioration of the property but must
undertake by bond to make the buyer whole in the event
the latter prevails.
In considering whether this resolution of conflicting
interests is unconstitutional, much depends on one's
perceptions of the practical considerations involved.
The Court holds it constitutionally essential to afford
opportunity for a probable-cause hearing prior to
repossession. Its stated purpose is "to prevent unfair and
mistaken deprivations of property." But in these typical
situations, the buyer-debtor has either defaulted or he
has not. If there is a default, it would seem not only
"fair," but essential, that the creditor be allowed to
repossess; and I cannot say that the likelihood of a
mistaken claim of default is sufficiently real or recurring
to justify a broad constitutional requirement that a
creditor do more than the typical state law requires and
permits him to do. Sellers are normally in the business
of selling and collecting the price for their merchandise.
I could be quite wrong, but it would not seem in the
creditor's interest for a default occasioning repossession
to occur; as a practical matter it would much better
serve his interests if the transaction goes forward and is
completed as planned. Dollar-and-cents considerations
weigh heavily against false claims of default as well as
against precipitate action that would allow no
opportunity for mistakes to surface and be [407 U.S. 101]
corrected.* Nor does it seem to me that creditors would
lightly undertake the expense of instituting replevin
actions and putting up bonds.
The Court relies on prior cases, particularly Goldberg v.
Kelly, 397 U.S. 254 (1970); Bell v. Burson, 402 U.S. 535
(1971); and Stanley v. Illinois, 405 U.S. 645 (1972). But
these cases provide no automatic test for determining
whether and when due process of law requires adversary
proceedings. Indeed, "[t]he very nature of due process
negates any concept of inflexible procedures universally
applicable to every imaginable situation. . . ." "[W]hat
procedures due process may require under any given set
of circumstances must begin [407 U.S. 102] with a
determination of the precise nature of the government
function involved as well as of the private interest that
has been affected by governmental action." Cafeteria
Workers v. McElroy, 367 U.S. 886, 895 (1961). See also
Stanley v. Illinois, supra, at 650; Goldberg v. Kelly,
supra, at 263. Viewing the issue before us in this light, I
would not construe the Due Process Clause to require
the creditors to do more than they have done in these
cases to secure possession pending final hearing.
Certainly, I would not ignore, as the Court does, the
creditor's interest in preventing further use and
deterioration of the property in which he has substantial
interest. Surely under the Court's own definition, the
creditor has a "property" interest as deserving of
protection as that of the debtor. At least the debtor, who
is very likely uninterested in a speedy resolution that
could terminate his use of the property, should be
required to make those payments, into court or
otherwise, upon which his right to possession is
conditioned. Cf. Lindsey v. Normet, 405 U.S. 56 (1972).
Third: The Court's rhetoric is seductive, but in end
analysis, the result it reaches will have little impact and
represents no more than ideological tinkering with state
law. It would appear that creditors could withstand
attack under today's opinion simply by making clear in
the controlling credit instruments that they may retake
possession without a hearing, or, for that matter,
without resort to judicial process at all. Alternatively,
they need only give a few days' notice of a hearing, take
possession if hearing is waived or if there is default; and
if hearing is necessary merely establish probable cause
for asserting that default has occurred. It is very doubtful
in my mind that such a hearing would in fact result in
protections for the debtor substantially different from
those the present laws provide. [407 U.S. 103] On the
contrary, the availability of credit may well be
diminished or, in any event, the expense of securing it
increased.
None of this seems worth the candle to me. The
procedure that the Court strikes down is not some
barbaric hangover from bygone days. The respective
rights of the parties in secured transactions have
undergone the most intensive analysis in recent years.
The Uniform Commercial Code, which now so
pervasively governs the subject matter with which it
deals, provides in Art. 9, ยง 9-503, that:
"Unless otherwise agreed a secured party has on default the right to
take possession of the collateral. In taking possession a secured
party may proceed without judicial process if this can be done
without breach of the peace or may proceed by action. . . ."
Recent studies have suggested no changes in Art. 9 in
this respect. See Permanent Editorial Board for the
Uniform Commercial Code, Review Committee for
Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code, Final
Report, ยง 9-503 (April 25, 1971). I am content to rest on
the judgment of those who have wrestled with these
problems so long and often and upon the judgment of
the legislatures that have considered and so recently
adopted provisions that contemplate precisely what has
happened in these cases.