Having participated in the decision of Planters and
written an opinion for the Court in Helene Curtis
[Industries, Inc.] v. Pruitt, 5th Cir. 1967, 385 F.2d 841,
which also involved sufficiency of the evidence, I think
it appropriate for me to enter a separate opinion
expressing my views. As for Part I of the majority
opinion, I agree that federal rather than state law
controls. As for the question of whether the standard for
sufficiency of evidence in FELA cases is applicable to
non-FELA cases, I am not altogether persuaded by Part
II of the majority opinion. While the railroad defendant
in an action under the FELA is held to a higher standard
of care than the defendant in a conventional diversity
personal injury action, thus making a directed verdict
against the injured plaintiff more unlikely in FELA
cases, I am not convinced that a different test for
sufficiency follows from this difference in the
controlling substantive law. Largely for reasons given by
Judge Tuttle in Planters and by Judge Rives in his
dissent in this case, I adhere to my concurrence in that
part of Planters which holds that the federal test for
sufficiency should be the same in all federal cases. On
the other hand, I believe that in the way they
characterize the FELA standard Planters and Helene
Curtis may place undue emphasis on Wilkerson v.
McCarthy, thereby implying a more restricted role for
the judiciary than is truly required by Supreme Court
decisions [411 F.2d 405] in FELA cases. I concur in the
overruling of Planters to the extent that we there held
that on motions for directed verdict and judgment
notwithstanding the verdict the court should consider
only the evidence and inferences which support the
non-mover's case.
I concur in Part III of the majority opinion. I read the
standard that has been formulated to mean that in ruling
on motions for directed verdict and judgment nov the
court should consider all the evidence, but in the light
and with all reasonable inferences most favorable to the
opposing party. I interpret this to mean that the court
should consider the evidence and inferences most
favorable to the opposing party and the uncontradicted
evidence put on by the movant. See Starling v. Gulf Life
Insurance Co., 5th Cir. 1967, 382 F.2d 701, 706;
Dehydrating Process Co. v. A. O. Smith Corp., 1st Cir.
1961, 292 F.2d 653, 656 fn. 6. Having done this, the
court should grant the motion only if reasonable, fairminded
men could reach no conclusion other than the
one urged by the movant.