PREFACE
Decision of this appeal should turn on the Seventh
Amendment: "In Suits at common law, where the value
in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of
trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a
jury, shall be otherwise reexamined in any Court of the
United States, than according to the rules of the
common law." The question of sufficiency of the
evidence to require submission of a case to the jury
presents a constitutional problem. Galloway v. United
States, 1943, 319 U.S. 372, 63 S.Ct. 1077, 87 L.Ed. 1458.
Ordinarily a court seeks ways to avoid deciding a
constitutional question. When the en banc majority by
application of the standard which it promulgates reaches
the same result as the original panel reached by
application of the FELA standard, it may not seem
necessary to decide whether the FELA standard differs
from the Seventh Amendment standard and, hence, is
inapplicable to diversity cases. However, that question
was necessary for the panel on original hearing of this
case to decide (see 389 F.2d at 511) and was material to
the decision in Planters (see 380 F.2d at 870 n. 1 and 873
n. 4), and consequently is proper to be ruled on upon
this en banc rehearing. Moreover, because of the
frequency with which that question arises, it is both
proper and advisable for the majority to decide it in the
exercise of this Court's supervisory control over the
district courts.1
With deference, I submit that when the majority
repudiates for diversity cases [411 F.2d 378] the FELA
standard and particularly the formula adopted in
Lavender v. Kurn, 1946, 327 U.S. 645, 66 S.Ct. 740, it
commits an error of constitutional proportions which
will continue to plague this Court and the district courts
of this Circuit until the Supreme Court grants certiorari
in this or some future2 case, and corrects the error.
The majority does not "* * * re-state in detail the critical
issues of fact on which Shipman based his case, since
they are adequately treated in the original opinion
herein * * *." While the original opinion is accurate in
its statement of the facts, it is not complete because it
refers to the briefs of the parties as follows:
"There was a mass of additional evidence as to the safety of the
place to work, which we find to be accurately summarized on pages
4 to 16 of the appellant's brief. The appellee does not dispute
appellant's statement, but files a statement (appellee's brief, pp. 2-4)
`supplemental in nature since appellant has set forth a rather
lengthy statement in its brief.'"
389 F.2d 507, 510. Moreover, the appellant is not
satisfied with the statement of the facts in our original
opinion, but spends six pages of its brief on rehearing
criticizing that statement and charging that, "There is no
placing of the evidence in context with the
overwhelming opposition evidence entered by
appellant, evidence which would rob appellee's evidence
of any persuasiveness." In any event, the importance of
this en banc consideration suggests a detailed statement
of all of the facts. I therefore attach as an appendix to
this opinion a full statement of the facts.
This is no occasion for an old common-law lawyer to
indulge in a panegyric on the virtues of jury trial; how in
our fallible system of human justice it is the best
instrument yet devised for the determination of facts,
how even its imperfections operate to rub the rough
edges off of technical principles of law when they would
result in unjust verdicts, how it is constantly improving
with the progress of our jurisprudence and with the
advance of education and enlightenment, how it gives
the citizen a proud and rightful place in the
administration of justice, and tends to make real our
utopian dream of a "government of the people, by the
people, and for the people." There are many who do not
agree with my almost reverential attitude toward jury
trial, but this is no occasion for a debate on that subject,
because our forefathers wrote into our Constitution the
right of trial by jury in both criminal and civil cases.3
Moreover, as to civil cases with which we are here
concerned, the Supreme Court has written at length in
the leading case of Galloway v. United States, supra.
With deference, I submit that the polished and scholarly
majority opinion has one fundamental weakness. It
downgrades the Seventh Amendment. Toward the end
of the part of the opinion captioned [411 F.2d 379] "II.
FELA (FEDERAL EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY ACT)
STANDARD FOR SUFFICIENCY OF EVIDENCE IS
INAPPLICABLE," it mentions: "Finally, the Seventh
Amendment of the United States Constitution
providing for trial by jury does not require, either
expressly or impliedly, that the test of sufficiency of
evidence to create a jury question in a non-FELA federal
case be the same as in an FELA case." I do not agree. My
text is that the FELA standard is based upon the
Constitution. That proposition is virtually ignored by
the majority. It is my hope that a single judge armed
with the Constitution can persuade a majority. Certainly
his oath compels him to try.
With those prefatory remarks, I proceed to a discussion
of the issues in the same order as the majority en banc
opinion.
I.
"FEDERAL RATHER THAN STATE TEST
IS APPLICABLE"
The majority concludes Part I of its opinion with the
statement: "Thus, we agree with the original opinion
and reaffirm our holding, often repeated, that a federal
rather than a state test is the proper one." As said in
Wright v. Paramount-Richards Theatres, 5 Cir. 1952,
198 F.2d 303, 305:
"* * * in federal courts the principle just adverted to [the Erie
doctrine] must give way to the overriding consideration that the
federal court is bound by the Seventh Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States."
The dichotomy is the same as that expressed by the
Supreme Court in Simler v. Conner, 1963, 372 U.S. 221,
222, 83 S.Ct. 609, 610, 9 L.Ed.2d 691:
"In diversity cases, of course, the substantive dimension of the claim
asserted finds its source in state law * *, but the characterization of
that state-created claim as legal or equitable for purposes of
whether a right to jury trial is indicated must be made by recourse
to federal law."4
I concur in Part I of the majority opinion.5
II.
FELA (FEDERAL EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY ACT)
STANDARD FOR SUFFICIENCY OF EVIDENCE IS
APPLICABLE
Perhaps in no field of the law is the cleavage between
substance and procedure more sharply drawn than in
the difference between the substantive elements of a
claim or cause of action and the remedy by jury trial.
That is necessarily true because the substantive rights
and duties are prescribed by contract, by the common
law, or by statute, while the right of jury trial is
preserved by the Seventh Amendment. The
Amendment [411 F.2d 380] accomplishes that separation
simply by addressing itself to each separate fact — "* * *
no fact tried by a jury * * *" — and that applies
irrespective of the substantive nature of the claim. The
claim may arise out of either contract or tort. The
variety of tort duties is almost without limit. For
example, the railroad owes to a trespasser only the duty
not to willfully or wantonly inflict injury or not to
negligently injure him after discovering his peril; in its
role as a common carrier, the railroad owes to its
passenger the highest degree of care; as an employer
under the FELA, the railroad is liable to its employee for
any negligence, however slight, which contributes to
cause the injury. Rogers v. Missouri Pacific Railroad
Co., 1957, 352 U.S. 500, 508, 77 S.Ct. 443, 1 L.Ed. 2d
493. Under bills of lading and under various other
contracts, the extent of variation in the railroad's duties
is infinite for the railroad's duty is measured by the
terms of the particular contract and the applicable public
policy. Breach of duty in any one of the capacities just
mentioned may result in a "suit at common law" against
the railroad. In every one of these varied cases where the
value in controversy exceeds twenty dollars, the right of
either the plaintiff or the defendant to a jury trial is
preserved by the Seventh Amendment and no fact of
whatever description can be re-examined in any federal
court except according to the rules of the common law.
In each and all of these varied cases, when the
substantive claim and the remedy are considered
separately the same standard is applicable to test the
sufficiency of the evidence for submission of the case to
a jury.
It goes without saying that the result of the application
of that standard varies according to the substantive
elements of the claim. For example, it is rare that a
trespasser can produce evidence warranting submission
of his case to a jury, and, at the other extreme, it is rare
that an employee in an FELA action fails to produce
such evidence. The reason lies not in any difference in
the standard of sufficiency of the evidence to preserve
the right of trial by jury but in the vast differences
between the substantive elements of the torts.
That is strikingly illustrated by a very recent Ohio State
case (decided December 24, 1968), Mills v. Pennsylvania
N.Y. C. Transp. Co., 16 Ohio St.2d 97, 243 N.E.2d 99.
Syllabus No. 1 prepared by the court reads: "State
procedural law and federal substantive law govern the
disposition of actions brought in state courts pursuant
to the provisions of the Federal Employers' Liability Act
(Section 51 et seq., Title 45, U.S. Code)."
The Ohio Court summarized the facts and holdings of
several of the United States Supreme Court cases6
interpreting the Federal Employers' Liability Act, and
then said:
"These cases demonstrate how strictly the rule of the Rogers case
(that any employer negligence, however slight, which contributes
to cause the injury is actionable) is to be applied in all F.E.L.A.
cases.1
"1. We have held that the use of the words, `in the slightest degree,'
or the phrase, `in any degree,' in connection with contributory
negligence in a charge to the jury in an action under state
substantive law constitutes reversible error. See Bahm v. Pittsburgh
& Lake Erie Rd. Co., 6 Ohio St.2d 192, [217 N.E.2d 217].
"In the instant case, the plaintiff alleges (and there is evidence in the
record [411 F.2d 381] to support) two bases for railroad negligence:
"(1) There was inadequate lighting at the place of the injury,
creating a hazardous situation.
"(2) There was coal and other debris lying around the immediate
vicinity where plaintiff was working.
"This case, in light of the United States Supreme Court cases
interpreting the Federal Employers' Liability Act, should have been
allowed to go to the jury, and accordingly we reverse the judgment
of the Court of Appeals.
"We do this reluctantly, and invite the United States Supreme
Court to consider how closely the strict application of the rule of
the Rogers case approaches a scheme of workman's compensation,
substituting the jury in place of a board of experts and allowing an
open-end award in lieu of a fixed statutory amount. The amount of
damages awarded by juries in F.E. L.A. actions often appears
exorbitant when compared to the slight degree of employer
negligence which contributed to cause the employee's injury.2 We
believe that it would be appropriate for the United States Supreme
Court to carefully review its former decisions, in light of the fact
that the rule of the Rogers case, as it has been applied, imposes legal
responsibilities on railroad employers that the Congress of the
United States never intended."
"2. The jury awards in the cases discussed were as follows: Rogers,
$40,000; Gallick, $625,000; Webb, $15,000; McBride, $51,000 and
Harris, $25.000.
16 Ohio St.2d at 104, 105, 243 N.E.2d at 103, 104.
It is like gilding the lily for me to add anything to Chief
Judge Tuttle's masterful analysis and decision in Planters
Manufacturing Co. v. Protection Mut. Ins. Co., 5 Cir.
1967, 380 F.2d 869, 871-875. The en banc majority
opinion, however, leaves me no alternative.
In his opinion for the Court in Planters, Judge Tuttle did
not so much as mention Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 1949,
336 U.S. 53, 69 S.Ct. 413, 93 L.Ed. 497. Only by remote
implication can it be asserted that Judge Tuttle adopted
an apparent holding of Wilkerson that on motions for
directed verdict and judgment notwithstanding the
verdict, the court should consider only the evidence and
inferences which support the non-mover's case.
Wilkerson was first cited along that line by this Court in
Helene Curtis Industries, Inc. v. Pruitt, 1967, 385 F.2d
841, 850, a case in which I participated. I am not
convinced that the Helene Curtis' reference to
Wilkerson was erroneous. That case simply employs the
same language as Wilkerson, and when properly
understood, as will be presently developed, that
language is not erroneous. But I must frankly confess
that in my opinion for the Court on the original hearing
of the instant case, I made what I now acknowledge to
be an erroneous contrast between the Alabama State
rule and the federal rule by considering in isolation the
following sentence in Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 336 U.S.
at p. 57, 69 S.Ct. at p. 415: "It is the established rule that
in passing upon whether there is sufficient evidence to
submit an issue to the jury we need look only to the
evidence and reasonable inferences which tend to
support the case of a litigant against whom a
peremptory instruction has been given." Boeing
Company v. Shipman, 5 Cir. 1968, 389 F.2d 507, 511.
The criticism which that sentence has provoked7 arises,
I submit, from a misunderstanding which becomes
apparent when the sentence is read in the totality of the
factual context out of which it arose.
The Wilkerson facts were simple. The railroad had
constructed a wheel-pit in which mechanics who
changed wheels [411 F.2d 382] could get under train cars.
Over this pit was extended a 20" wide plank which was
not firmly set or attached and which had been permitted
to become oily and slippery. At one time the plank was
used by all employees working in the yard.
Subsequently, the railroad erected posts and chains
ostensibly obstructing access to the plank to all
employees except those who worked in the pit itself.
Wilkerson, a switchman who had no duties in the
wheel-pit area, in taking a short cut, crossed over one of
the chains and attempted to walk over the plank. He fell
and was injured. In his FELA suit, he attributed his
injuries to the negligence of the railroad in failing to
maintain a safe place to work. The railroad responded
by admitting the existence of the greasy plank over the
pit and acknowledging that Wilkerson had sustained the
injuries he described. The carrier, nevertheless, argues
that an alternate safe passage to the other side of the pit
was readily available at a very short distance from the
plank and that Wilkerson was the real negligent party in
using the chained-off plank. The crucial issue was not
the question of contributory negligence. Rather, there
arose a factual dispute as to whether the construction of
the chains across the plank in fact stopped all
unauthorized persons from using the plank and thereby
absolved the carrier of liability. Wilkerson and another
witness testified that, in fact, the chains did not stop
anyone from crossing the pit via the greasy plank and
that it was a "common practice" to cross the plank even
after erection of the chain. 336 U.S. at 58-60 notes 3, 4,
69 S.Ct. 413. Witnesses for the railroad testified to the
contrary that, after the chains were put up, only persons
working in the pit area on train wheels used the plank.
336 U.S. at 59-60, 69 S.Ct. 413.
Immediately following the sentence which I mistakenly
quoted in isolation, Mr. Justice Black added: "Viewing
the evidence here in that way it was sufficient to show
the following * * *." 336 U.S. at 57, 69 S.Ct. at 415.
Then, after an elaborate examination of the facts, as
based on testimony by both sides in the controversy, he
framed the issue in Wilkerson as follows:
"Thus the conflict as to continued use of the board as a walkway
after erection of the chains was whether the pit workers alone
continued to use it as a walkway [the carrier evidence], or whether
employees generally so used it. While this left only a very narrow
conflict in the evidence, it was for the jury, not the court, to resolve
the conflict."
336 U.S. at 60, 69 S.Ct. at 416. Consideration of this
comment framing the issue, in light of the actual review
immediately before it of testimony ascribed to witnesses
for both sides, makes it apparent that all of the evidence
was examined, though determination of the sufficiency
of Wilkerson's evidence to withstand the carrier's
motion necessitated a "look only to the evidence and
reasonable inferences which tend to support the case of
[Wilkerson] against whom a peremptory instruction
has been given." Cf. Blume, supra note 5, at 577-578,
citing Southern Ry. Co. v. Walters, 1931, 284 U.S. 190,
194, 52 S.Ct. 58, 76 L.Ed. 239. Contrary to my original
interpretation of the Wilkerson case, viz., that it
compelled the trial court to view only the non-movant's
evidence, it is but one of a line of cases all applying
essentially the same sufficiency test dictated by the
Seventh Amendment.
While confessing one error in my opinion for the Court
on the original hearing of this case, let me admit
another. I erred in stating that "The continued validity
of that holding8 is subject to [411 F.2d 383] serious doubt
if the standards applied in FELA cases must also be
applied in diversity cases." After more thorough
research, I entertain no doubt that the so-called
"scintilla" test has been firmly rejected by the Supreme
Court and other federal courts in all jury cases including
FELA cases.9 This firm rejection is [411 F.2d 384]
illustrated by the authorities collected in footnotes 8 and
9 to the majority opinion herein.
I submit that the FELA standard for sufficiency of the
evidence to require submission of the case to a jury is a
constitutional standard. There can be no doubt that an
action for damages under the FELA is a "suit at common
law" as that expression is used in the Seventh
Amendment, for it was early settled that, "The phrase
`common law,' found in this clause, is used in
contradistinction to equity, and admiralty and maritime
jurisprudence." Parsons v. Bedford, Breedlove &
Robeson, 1830, 28 U.S. (3 Pet.) 266, 274 [433, 445] 7
L.Ed. 732.10 That case has been consistently followed in
[411 F.2d 385] later decisions which have made clear that
the right of jury trial under the Seventh Amendment
does not depend upon the source of the claim, whether
from common law or from state or federal statute, but
solely on whether the claim should be characterized as
legal rather than equitable or in admiralty.11
The Supreme Court has held that while the Seventh
Amendment does not apply to a FELA action brought in
a State court,12 it does apply to such an action brought in
a federal court.13
Mr. Justice Douglas, concurring in Harris v.
Pennsylvania R. Co., supra note 13 said: "The difference
between the majority and minority of the Court in our
treatment of FELA cases concerns the degree of
vigilance we should exercise in safeguarding the jury
trial — guaranteed by the Seventh Amendment and part
and parcel of the remedy under this Federal Act when
suit is brought in state courts." However, the view of the
majority of the Supreme Court seems to be that the
Seventh Amendment is not applicable to the States
either ex proprio vigore or because a "part and parcel of
the remedy" under the FELA. See Minneapolis & St
Louis R. R. v. Bombolis, supra note 12. The majority of
the Supreme Court bases reversal of directed verdict
judgments by State courts in FELA cases not on the
Seventh Amendment but on a purpose to assure
uniform enforcement of the substantive provisions of
the Act. As said in Dice v. Akron, C. & Y. R. Co., 1952,
342 U.S. 359, 363, 72 S.Ct. 312, 315, 96 L.Ed. 398:
"We have previously held that `The right to trial by jury is "a basic
and fundamental feature of our system of federal jurisprudence"'
and that it is `part and parcel of the remedy afforded railroad
workers under the Employers' Liability Act.' Bailey v. Central
Vermont R. Co., 319 U.S. 350, 354 [63 S.Ct. 1062, 1064, 87 L.Ed.
1444]. We also recognized in that case that to deprive railroad
workers of the benefit of a jury trial where there is evidence to
support negligence `is to take away a goodly portion of the relief
which Congress has afforded them.' It follows that the right to trial
by jury is too substantial a part of the rights accorded by the Act to
permit it to be classified as a mere `local rule of procedure' for
denial in the manner that Ohio has here used. Brown v. Western R.
Co. [of Ala.], 338 U.S. 294 [70 S.Ct. 105, 94 L.Ed. 100][411 F.2d 386]
."
Since, as we have seen, the Supreme Court itself has
settled that the Seventh Amendment applies to a FELA
action brought in a federal court, the next question is
whether a different kind of jury trial is prescribed by the
FELA itself either expressly or implicitly as "part of the
remedy." Nowhere in the statute does the word "jury"
appear. The reason for that omission is stated in a
footnote in Rogers v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 1957, 352
U.S. 500, 508 n. 18, 77 S.Ct. 443, 449, 1 L.Ed.2d 493,
which can be best understood in connection with the
sentence of the text to which that footnote is appended:
"The Congress when adopting the law was particularly concerned
that the issues whether there was employer fault and whether that
fault played any part in the injury or death of the employee should
be decided by the jury whenever fair-minded men could reach these
conclusions on the evidence.18
"18. While the primary reason was a protest against undue
comment by trial judges as to the facts, the original 1906 Act
provided; `All questions of negligence and contributory negligence
shall be for the jury.' 34 Stat. 232. Hearings before Senate
Committee on Interstate Commerce on H.R. 239, 59th Cong., 1st
Sess. 68-69. The inclusion in the 1908 statute of another provision,
`All questions of fact relating to negligence shall be for the jury to
determine,' was proposed but not adopted. The view prevailed that
this would be surplusage in light of the Seventh Amendment
embodying the common-law tradition that fact questions were for
the jury. Hearings before Senate Committee on Education and
Labor on S. 5307, 60th Cong., 1st Sess. 8-9, 45-46."14
That footnote clearly indicates that the jury trial which
is "part and parcel of the remedy" in FELA actions in
federal courts is the same jury trial guaranteed by the
Seventh Amendment. A similar thought is expressed in
Mr. Justice Douglas' concurring opinion in Harris v.
Pennsylvania R. Co., quoted, supra, 361 U.S. p. 15, 80
S.Ct. 22. Those cases do not stand alone. Other Supreme
Court decisions have established that it is the jury trial
guaranteed by the Seventh Amendment which is "part
and parcel of the remedy" in FELA actions in federal
courts.15 Indeed, it seems an unwarranted affront to
suggest that the Supreme Court, by mere fiat, has
invented for FELA cases a kind of jury trial found
neither in the Constitution nor in the Act.
Moreover, I submit that neither the Congress nor the
Supreme Court can constitutionally give a broader role
to the jury in FELA cases than that guaranteed by the
Seventh Amendment. That is true because of the
principle announced by the Supreme Court in a
different context in Herron v. Southern Pacific Co.,
1931, 283 U.S. 91, 95, 51 S.Ct. 383, 384, 75 L.Ed. 857:
"In a trial by jury in a federal court, the judge is not a mere
moderator, [411 F.2d 387] but is the governor of the trial for the
purpose of assuring its proper conduct and of determining
questions of law. This discharge of the judicial function as at
common law is an essential factor in the process for which the
Federal Constitution provides."
Again, speaking through Mr. Justice Van Devanter in
Baltimore & C. Line v. Redman, 1935, 295 U.S. 654,
657, 55 S.Ct. 890, 891, 79 L.Ed. 1636, the Court said:
"The right of trial by jury thus preserved is the right which existed
under the English common law when the Amendment was
adopted. The Amendment not only preserves that right but
discloses a studied purpose to protect it from indirect impairment
through possible enlargements of the power of reexamination
existing under the common law, and to that end declares that `no
fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined in any court of
the United States than according to the rules of the common law.'
"The aim of the Amendment, as this Court has held, is to preserve
the substance of the common-law right of trial by jury, as
distinguished from mere matters of form or procedure, and
particularly to retain the common-law distinction between the
province of the court and that of the jury, whereby, in the absence
of express or implied consent to the contrary, issues of law are to be
resolved by the court and issues of fact are to be determined by the
jury under appropriate instructions by the court.4
"4. Walker v. New Mexico & So. Pac. R. Co., 165 U.S. 593, 596 [17
S.Ct. 421, 41 L.Ed. 837]; Gasoline Products Co. v. Champlin
Refining Co., 283 U.S. 494, 497-499 [51 S.Ct. 513, 75 L.Ed. 1188];
Dimick v. Schiedt, 293 U.S. 474, 476, 485-486 [55 S.Ct. 296, 79
L.Ed. 603.]"
The principle has been most clearly and succinctly
expressed by Judge Phillips speaking for the Tenth
Circuit in Diederich v. American News Co., 1942, 128
F.2d 144, 146:
"The power of the judge to pass upon questions of law is just as
much an essential part of the process of trial by jury at common law
guaranteed by the Seventh Amendment, as is the power of the jury
to pass upon questions of fact."
Other opinions so indicating are quoted in the margin.16
[411 F.2d 388] The first FELA passed in 1906 contained a
provision that all questions of negligence and
contributory negligence shall be submitted to the jury.
See Appendix B, p. 387, infra. In holding that Act
unconstitutional, some inconclusive comments were
made upon that provision both in Mr. Justice White's
opinion for the Court,17 and in Mr. Justice Moody's
dissenting opinion.18 Profiting from those expressions,
the Congress in considering the second or 1908 FELA
struck a similar provision following the argument of
Senator Rayner. His argument appears in Appendix B at
pp. 403-404, infra, and is so clear and cogent that I quote
from it.
"As to the other clause:
"`All questions of fact relating to negligence shall be for the jury to
determine.'
"I desire to be perfectly frank. I think it ought to go out. Why?
Because it does not change the law as it exists to-day, in my
judgment, and if it did attempt to change the law it would be clearly
unconstitutional. In other words, the seventh amendment protects
without any exception whatever, all trials at common law under
Federal jurisdiction, as established in England and in this country at
the date of the adoption of that amendment.
"It was the prerogative of the court at the date of the adoption of
that amendment to charge the jury as to questions of law after
considering the facts bearing upon those questions. It was the
province of the court to determine whether a case should be
withdrawn from the jury by reason of the fact that the plaintiff had
not in his evidence brought himself within the terms of the law. It
was the province of the court, and it is and must be to-day, to set
aside a verdict for want of sufficient evidence Any one of those
prerogatives or others that could be mentioned which a provision
of the [411 F.2d 389] statute of Congress attempted to take from the
presiding judge of a Federal court trying a common law case would
be in violation of the seventh amendment. The seventh amendment
has not added to or taken from the prerogatives of a judge presiding
over a court of law a single power that existed at the date of its
adoption. It simply preserved the status quo as it then existed, and
the authorities on that are perfectly clear."
An FELA case has furnished the formula in most general
use by federal courts in all types of cases for determining
the absence of a controverted issue of fact. As said in 5
Moore, Federal Practice § 50.02 [1], pp. 2320-2322:
"Until Brady v. Southern Railroad14 was decided by the Supreme
Court in 1943, the federal courts had not clearly opted between the
standard that permitted a court to direct a verdict on the basis of a
strong preponderance of the evidence15 and the `reasonable man'
type of standard indicated above. In the Brady case, the Court
announced the standard in the following terms:16
"`When the evidence is such that without weighing the credibility
of the witnesses there can be but one reasonable conclusion as to
the verdict, the court should determine the proceeding by non-suit,
directed verdict or otherwise in accordance with the applicable
practice without submission to the jury, or by judgment
notwithstanding the verdict. By such direction of the trial the result
is saved from the mischance of speculation over legally unfounded
claims.'
Since that time, although they have used many different
formulations, the federal courts have been reasonably consistent in
the application of the Brady rule, that a verdict may properly be
directed when, without weighing the credibility of the witnesses,
there can be but one reasonable conclusion as to the verdict.17 But
where there is conflicting evidence, or there is insufficient evidence
to make only a `one-way' verdict possible, a directed verdict is
improper.18
"14. (1943) 320 U.S. 476, 64 S.Ct. 232, 88 L.Ed. 239.
"15. See, e. g., Pennsylvania RR. v. Chamberlain (1933) 288 U.S.
333, 53 S.Ct. 391, 77 L.Ed. 819; McBaine, Trial Practice: Directed
Verdicts; Federal Rule (1943) 31 Calif.L.Rev. 454, 460.
"16. 320 U.S. at 479-480 [64 S.Ct. at 234-235].
"17. The cases supporting this conclusion are almost infinite in
number. The citations that follow are extensive but not exhaustive.
They provide a sampling of circuits and varieties of factual
situations. [Citations omitted.]
"18. These cases should be read in connection with those in the
preceding footnote, since they represent only the other side of the
same coin. Again, no attempt has been made to exhaust the
authorities. Instead, the cases merely represent an abundant
sampling of the authorities among different circuits and with
different factual bases. [Citations omitted.]"
In Continental Ore Co. v. Union Carbide & Carbon
Corp., 1962, 370 U.S. 690, 696 n. 6, 701, 82 S.Ct. 1404, 8
L.Ed.2d 777, a private antitrust case, the Supreme Court
cited an FELA case, Tennant v. Peoria & P. U. R. Co.,
321 U.S. 29, 64 S.Ct. 409, 88 L.Ed. 520, at two different
places in its opinion as indicating the rule on sufficiency
of the evidence for a case to go to the jury.
In at least three diversity cases from this Circuit, the
Supreme Court has entered per curiam reversals when
this Court has substituted its views of the sufficiency of
the evidence for those of the jury.19
[411 F.2d 390] It need not be apprehended that juries will
get from under proper influence or control of trial
judges when the FELA standard is applied in diversity
cases. That is true for several reasons. First, as has been
argued, the extreme results in FELA cases come about
because of the substantive elements of the tort rather
than from the application of the jury standard. Second,
jurors listen to trial judges, and the federal district judges
have the power to advise them on the facts.
"In many cases the Supreme Court of the United States has
recognized the power of the trial judge to advise the jury on the
facts, but has, at the same time, required a clear separation of law
from fact, and has insisted that the judge tell the jurors that they
were not bound by the judge's opinion of the facts.48.
"48. McLanahan v. Universal Ins. Co., 1 Pet. (26 U.S.) 170 [7 L.Ed.
98] (1828); Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. (35 U.S.) 79 [80, 9 L.Ed.
354] (1836); Games v. Dunn, 14 Pet. (39 U.S.) 322 [10 L.Ed. 476]
(1840); Starr v. United States, 153 U.S. 614, 14 S.Ct. 919 [38 L.Ed.
841] (1894); Quercia v. United States, 289 U.S. 466, 53 S.Ct. 689
[698, 77 L.Ed. 1321] (1933); United States v. Murdock, 290 U.S.
389, 54 S.Ct. 223 [78 L.Ed. 381] (1933)."
Blume, supra note 7, at 567, 568. Third, as has been
discussed in our original opinion in this case, 389 F.2d at
513, 514,20 the district courts retain extremely broad
discretion to grant new trials. In the early days of the
common law, the remedy for a jury finding contrary to
the evidence was to grant a new trial.21 That continues
to be the safest remedy, less subject to reversal, and
encroaching least on the constitutional fact-finding
province of the jury.22 Moreover, it [411 F.2d 391] keeps
the decision where it belongs, in the hands of the district
judge who has seen and heard the witnesses testify and
observed their demeanor on the stand. A more general
use of new trial instead of directed verdict would save
the appellate judges many precious judicial man hours in
these days of exploding dockets.23 Strange to say,
however, we do not hear that factor mentioned by
appellate court judges when they are reaching out for
power to substitute their views for those of the jury.24
The burden of controlling jury verdicts rests primarily
on the district judges and, except when they substitute
their views for those of a jury, interference by the
Courts of Appeals should be extremely rare. Even less
often should the Supreme Court be called on to review
the sufficiency of the evidence. If exercised in many
cases it becomes an impossible burden. That has often
been noted by the dissenting justices in FELA cases. For
example, in Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 1948, 336 U.S. 53,
66, 69 S.Ct. 413, 93 L. Ed. 497, Mr. Justice Frankfurter
said:
"Considering the volume and complexity of the cases which
obviously call for decision by this Court, and considering the time
and thought that the proper disposition of such cases demands, I do
not think we should take cases merely to review facts already
canvassed by two and sometimes three courts even though those
facts may have been erroneously appraised."
See also Schulz, Adm'x v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 1956, 350
U.S. 523, 527, 76 S.Ct. 608, 100 L.Ed. 668.
I have noted, supra note 19, three diversity cases in
which the Supreme Court reversed this Circuit per
curiam when we sought to substitute our views for
those of the jury. However, most such cases never reach
the Supreme Court. As said by Mr. Justice Black
dissenting in Galloway v. United States, 1942, 319 U.S.
372, 407, 63 S.Ct. 1077, 1096, 87 L.Ed. 1458: "So few of
these cases come to this Court that, as a matter of fact,
the judges of the District Courts and the Circuit Courts
of Appeal are the primary custodians of the
Amendment."
On the same page Mr. Justice Black wisely observed
that, "Our duty to preserve this one of the Bill of Rights
may be peculiarly difficult, for here it is our own power
which we must restrain." On the preceding page he had
remarked that, "The language of the Seventh
Amendment cannot easily be improved by formulas."
319 U.S. at 406, 63 S.Ct. at 1095.25 On the other hand,
Judges both trial and appellate are conscientious in the
performance of their duties, and they will follow a
formula or standard prescribed by higher authority
when it is clear and certain. Such formulas have been
evolved in the FELA cases and [411 F.2d 392] especially
in Lavender v. Kurn, supra, formulas which are of
inestimable aid to the district judges and the judges of
the Courts of Appeals as "the primary custodians of the
Amendment." 319 U.S. at 407, 63 S.Ct. at 1096. We
grievously err when we discard those formulas in
diversity cases.
To recapitulate, I submit that the same standard of
sufficiency of the evidence to require submission of a
case to the jury applies in diversity cases as in FELA
cases, for the following reasons: (1) The extreme results
reached in FELA cases is because of the substantive
elements of the tort, and not because of any difference in
the standard of sufficiency of the evidence to preserve
the right of trial by jury; (2) an action under the FELA is
a "suit at common law" as that expression is used in the
Seventh Amendment, and carries the right of jury trial
under that Amendment; (3) the kind of jury trial
intended by the FELA as a "part and parcel of the
remedy" is none other than the Seventh Amendment
right of jury trial; (4) we cannot assume that the
Supreme Court, by mere fiat, has invented for FELA
cases a kind of jury trial found neither in the Act nor in
the Constitution; (5) neither the Congress nor the
Supreme Court can constitutionally give a broader role
to the jury in FELA cases than that guaranteed by the
Seventh Amendment; (6) the Supreme Court and other
federal courts have applied the FELA standard in
diversity cases and other kinds of cases; (7) trial judges
retain adequate influence over and control of juries
through their admitted powers to advise on the facts and
to grant new trials; (8) the formulas evolved in the
FELA cases and especially in Lavender v. Kurn, supra,
operate to restore the historic common-law function of
the jury in passing on disputed questions of fact.
III.
"THE SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE OR
REASONABLE MAN TEST"
Sitting en banc, a majority of this Court "promulgate[s]"
what it considers to be "the standard" (emphasis added)
for determining the sufficiency of evidence necessary to
require submission of a case to the jury. For three
reasons, I disagree with this newly promulgated
formula.
First, the majority expressly overrules the Supreme
Court's own sufficiency test set out in Lavender v. Kurn,
supra, 327 U.S. at 653, 66 S.Ct. 740, and rejects Planters
Mfg. Co. v. Protection Mut. Ins. Co., 5 Cir. 1967, 380
F.2d 869, 874, which adopted the Lavender standard.26
The majority, in so doing, commits constitutional error,
for the Lavender test represents but one articulation of
several constitutional formulas used by the Supreme
Court.
Second, the majority simply has no authority to
"promulgate" any one standard when the Supreme
Court itself has prescribed a number of them,27 and has
[411 F.2d 393] left the door open for further formulas to
be developed.28
As has been mentioned, supra pp. 389-390, perhaps the
most concise and well-accepted Supreme Court
explanation of the standard is contained in Brady v.
Southern R. Co., 1943, 320 U.S. 476, 479-480, 64 S.Ct.
232, 88 L.Ed. 239. See 5 Moore, Federal Practice ¶ 50.02
[1], p. 2320 (2d ed. 1968) (noting that "the federal courts
have been reasonably consistent in the application of the
Brady rule.")
The wisdom of our forefathers embodied in the Seventh
Amendment is expressed in a single sentence. Its limits
are stated as "the right of trial by jury" to be re-examined
only "according to the rules of the common law." Many
formulas have been used in the past and more will be
employed in the future to explain the meaning of those
phrases. No "promulgation" of this Court can limit the
freedom of thought and expression of the district judges,
and it is sheer folly for us to make such an effort. I
cannot help wondering what this Court would do
should some independent-minded district court judge
choose to follow one of the Supreme Court statements
of the standard instead of the standard announced by the
majority. There is nothing we could do and we should
never assume such an untenable position by adopting a
single formula.
Third, I disagree with the new standard "established" by
the majority because it is at least misleading in its use of
the term "substantial," if it is not erroneous. The word
"substantial," used in its legal sense, can equally well
connote either a qualitative or a quantitative meaning.
This distinction was implicitly recognized and
effectively avoided by the decision in Planters.See 380
F.2d at 874. In closing, too, I note that, notwithstanding
all the variations which the Supreme Court has played
on its sufficiency theme, I have been unable to find a
single instance in which the Supreme Court has used
"substantial"29 in any of its [411 F.2d 394] articulations of
the constitutional standard.
What then do I offer as an alternative to the majority
formula? With the Supreme Court I must conclude that
"the mere difference in labels used to describe this
[sufficiency] standard * * * cannot amount to a
departure from `the rules of the common law' which the
[Seventh] Amendment requires to be followed."
Galloway v. United States, 1943, 319 U.S. 372, 395, 63
S.Ct. 1077, 1089, 87 L.Ed. 1458.
While some may consider a single formula for the
standard to be laudable in the name of uniformity, I
think it is unnecessary. I seek to achieve the purpose of
the Seventh Amendment — reservation of the
resolution of factual disputes to the jury alone — not to
establish one or more preferable formulas for the
standard. And this purpose is perhaps best amplified in
the language of Lavender and Planters. If I had to choose
a single formula, my choice would lie among three: (a)
the language of Lavender; (b) the "Brady rule," quoted
heretofore on pages 389-390 and again referred to on
page 393; (c) the same formula as that for granting a
summary judgment, quoted in footnote 28, supra.
IV.
CONSIDERATION OF THE MERITS
I concur in the judgment of affirmance, but for the
reasons expressed in the original Boeing opinion.
CONCLUSION
To correct our previous errors, the Court should modify
Boeing to the extent that it incorporates a
misconception of Wilkerson v. McCarthy, supra, with
respect to what evidence is reviewed, should withdraw
the expression of doubt as to the continued validity of
the holding in Reuter v. Eastern Air Lines, supra, and
should reiterate the fundamental validity of Planters
Manufacturing Co. v. Protection Mut. Ins. Co., supra.
I therefore concur in part and dissent in part.