MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The McCarran Amendment, 66 Stat. 560, 43 U. S. C. 
§
666, provides that "consent is hereby given to join the
United States as a defendant in any suit (1) for the
adjudication of rights to the use of water of a river
system or other source, or (2) for the administration of
such 
[424 U.S. 803]
 rights, where it appears that the
United States is the owner of or is in the process of
acquiring water rights by appropriation under State law,
by purchase, by exchange, or otherwise, and the United
States is a necessary party to such suit." The questions
presented by this case concern the effect of the
McCarran Amendment upon the jurisdiction of the
federal district courts under 28 U. S. C. 
§
 1345 over suits
for determination of water rights brought by the United
States as trustee for certain Indian tribes and as owner of
various non-Indian Government claims.
1
[424 U.S. 804]
 I
It is probable that no problem of the Southwest section
of the Nation is more critical than that of scarcity of
water. As southwestern populations have grown,
conflicting claims to this scarce resource have increased.
To meet these claims, several Southwestern States have
established elaborate procedures for allocation of water
and adjudication of conflicting claims to that resource.
2
In 1969, Colorado enacted its Water Rights
Determination and Administration Act
3 
 in an effort to
revamp its legal procedures for determining claims to
water within the State.
Under the Colorado Act, the State is divided into seven
Water Divisions, each Division encompassing one or
more entire drainage basins for the larger rivers in
Colorado.
4 
 Adjudication of water claims within each
Division occurs on a continuous basis.
5 
 Each month,
Water Referees in each Division rule on applications for
water rights filed within the preceding five months or
refer those applications to the Water Judge of their
Division.
6 
 Every six months, the Water Judge passes on
referred applications and contested decisions by
Referees.
7 
 A State Engineer and engineers for each
Division are responsible for the administration and
distribution 
[424 U.S. 805]
 of the waters of the State
according to the determinations in each Division.
8
Colorado applies the doctrine of prior appropriation in
establishing rights to the use of water.
9 
 Under that
doctrine, one acquires a right to water by diverting it
from its natural source and applying it to some
beneficial use. Continued beneficial use of the water is
required in order to maintain the right. In periods of
shortage, priority among confirmed rights is determined
according to the date of initial diversion.
10
The reserved rights of the United States extend to
Indian reservations, Winters v. United States, 207 U.S.
564 (1908), and other federal lands, such as national
parks and forests, Arizona v. California, 373 U.S. 546
(1963). The reserved rights claimed by the United States
in this case affect waters within Colorado Water
Division No. 7. On November 14, 1972, the
Government instituted this suit in the United States
District Court for the District of Colorado, invoking the
court's jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. 
§
 1345. The
District Court is located in Denver, some 300 miles
from Division 7. The suit, against some 1,000 water
users, sought declaration of the Government's rights to
waters in certain rivers and their tributaries located in
Division 7. In the suit, the Government asserted
reserved rights on its own behalf and on behalf of
certain Indian tribes, as well as rights based on state law.
It sought appointment of a water master to administer
any waters decreed to the United States. 
[424 U.S. 806]
Prior to institution of this suit, the Government had
pursued adjudication of non-Indian reserved rights and
other water claims based on state law in Water
Divisions 4, 5, and 6, and the Government continues to
participate fully in those Divisions.
Shortly after the federal suit was commenced, one of the
defendants in that suit filed an application in the state
court for Division 7, seeking an order directing service
of process on the United States in order to make it a
party to proceedings in Division 7 for the purpose of
adjudicating all of the Government's claims, both state
and federal. On January 3, 1973, the United States was
served pursuant to authority of the McCarran
Amendment. Several defendants and intervenors in the
federal proceeding then filed a motion in the District
Court to dismiss on the ground that under the
Amendment, the court was without jurisdiction to
determine federal water rights. Without deciding the
jurisdictional question, the District Court, on June 21,
1973, granted the motion in an unreported oral opinion
stating that the doctrine of abstention required
deference to the proceedings in Division 7. On appeal,
the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit reversed,
United States v. Akin, 504 F.2d 115 (1974), holding that
the suit of the United States was within district-court
jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. 
§
 1345, and that
abstention was inappropriate. We granted certiorari to
consider the important questions of whether the
McCarran Amendment terminated jurisdiction of
federal courts to adjudicate federal water rights and
whether, if that jurisdiction was not terminated, the
District Court's dismissal in this case was nevertheless
appropriate. 421 U.S. 946 (1975). We reverse.
II
We first consider the question of district-court
jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. 
§
 1345. That section
provides 
[424 U.S. 807]
 that the district courts shall have
original jurisdiction over all civil actions brought by the
Federal Government "[e]xcept as otherwise provided by
Act of Congress." It is thus necessary to examine
whether the McCarran Amendment is such an Act of
Congress excepting jurisdiction under 
§
 1345.
The McCarran Amendment does not by its terms, at
least, indicate any repeal of jurisdiction under 
§
 1345.
Indeed, subsection (d) of the Amendment, which is
uncodified, provides:
"(d) None of the funds appropriated by this title may be used in the
preparation or prosecution of the suit in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of California, Southern Division, by
the United States of America against Fallbrook Public Utility
District, a public service corporation of the State of California, and
others." Act of July 10, 1952, Pub. L. 495, 
§
 208 (d), 66 Stat. 560.
In prohibiting the use of funds for the maintenance by
the United States of a specific suit then pending in a
District Court, subsection (d) plainly implies that the
Amendment did not repeal the jurisdiction of district
courts under 
§
 1345 to adjudicate suits brought by the
United States for adjudication of claimed federal water
rights.
11
Beyond its terms, the legislative history of the
Amendment evidences no clear purpose to terminate
any portion of 
§
 1345 jurisdiction. Indeed, three bills,
proposed at approximately the same time as the
Amendment, which expressly would have had the effect
of precluding suits by the United States in district court
for the determination 
[424 U.S. 808]
 of water rights,
failed of passage.
12 
 Further, the Senate report on the
Amendment states: "The purpose of the proposed
legislation, as amended, is to permit the joinder of the
United States as a party defendant in any suit for the
adjudication of rights to the use of water . . . ."
13
Nothing in this statement of purpose indicates an intent
correlatively to diminish federal-district-court
jurisdiction. Similarly, Senator McCarran, who
introduced the legislation in the Senate, stated in a letter
made a part of the Senate report that the legislation was
"not intended to be used for any other purpose than to
allow the United States to be joined in a suit wherein it
is necessary to adjudicate all of the rights of various
owners on a given stream."
14
In view of the McCarran Amendment's language and
legislative history, controlling principles of statutory
construction require the conclusion that the
Amendment did not constitute an exception "provided
by Act of Congress" that repealed the jurisdiction of
district courts under 
§
 1345 to entertain federal water
suits. "When there are statutes clearly defining the
jurisdiction of the courts the force and effect of such
provisions should not be disturbed by a mere
implication flowing from subsequent legislation."
Rosencrans v. United States, 165 U.S. 257, 262 (1897).
See Morton v. Mancari, 417 U.S. 535, 549-551 (1974);
United States v. Jackson, 302 U.S. 628, 632 (1938). "In
the absence of some affirmative showing of an intention
to repeal, the only permissible justification for a repeal
by implication is when the earlier and later statutes are
irreconcilable." Morton v. Mancari, supra, at 550. Not
only do the terms and legislative 
[424 U.S. 809]
 history
of the McCarran Amendment not indicate an intent to
repeal 
§
 1345, but also there is no irreconcilability in the
operation of both statutes. The immediate effect of the
Amendment is to give consent to jurisdiction in the
state courts concurrent with jurisdiction in the federal
courts over controversies involving federal rights to the
use of water. There is no irreconcilability in the
existence of concurrent state and federal jurisdiction.
Such concurrency has, for example, long existed under
federal diversity jurisdiction. Accordingly, we hold that
the McCarran Amendment in no way diminished
federal-district-court jurisdiction under 
§
 1345 and that
the District Court had jurisdiction to hear this case.
15
III
We turn next to the question whether this suit
nevertheless was properly dismissed in view of the
concurrent state proceedings in Division 7.
A
First, we consider whether the McCarran Amendment
provided consent to determine federal reserved rights
held on behalf of Indians in state court. This is a
question not previously squarely addressed by this
Court, and given the claims for Indian water rights in
this case, dismissal clearly would have been
inappropriate if the state court had no jurisdiction to
decide those claims. We conclude that the state court
had jurisdiction over Indian water rights under the
Amendment.
United States v. District Court for Eagle County, 401
U.S. 520 (1971), and United States v. District Court for
Water Div. 5, 401 U.S. 527 (1971),
[424 U.S. 810]
  held
that the provisions of the McCarran Amendment,
whereby "consent is . . . given to join the United States
as a defendant in any suit (1) for the adjudication . . . or
(2) for the administration of [water] rights, where it
appears that the United States is the owner . . . by
appropriation under state law, by purchase, by
exchange, or otherwise . . . ," subject federal reserved
rights to general adjudication in state proceedings for
the determination of water rights. More specifically, the
Court held that reserved rights were included in those
rights where the United States was "otherwise" the
owner. United States v. District Court for Eagle County,
supra, at 524. Though Eagle County and Water Div. 5
did not involve reserved rights on Indian reservations,
viewing the Government's trusteeship of Indian rights
as ownership, the logic of those cases clearly extends to
such rights. Indeed, Eagle County spoke of non-Indian
rights and Indian rights without any suggestion that
there was a distinction between them for purposes of
the Amendment. 401 U. S., at 523.
Not only the Amendment's language, but also its
underlying policy, dictates a construction including
Indian rights in its provisions. Eagle County rejected the
conclusion that federal reserved rights in general were
not reached by the Amendment for the reason that the
Amendment "[deals] with an all-inclusive statute
concerning `the adjudication of rights to the use of
water of a river system.' " Id., at 524. This consideration
applies as well to federal water rights reserved for Indian
reservations. And cogently, the Senate report on the
Amendment observed:
"In the administration of and the adjudication of water rights under
State laws the State courts are vested with the jurisdiction necessary
for the proper 
[424 U.S. 811]
 and efficient disposition thereof, and
by reason of the interlocking of adjudicated rights on any stream
system, any order or action affecting one right affects all such
rights. Accordingly all water users on a stream, in practically every
case, are interested and necessary parties to any court proceedings.
It is apparent that if any water user claiming to hold such right by
reason of the ownership thereof by the United States or any of its
departments is permitted to claim immunity from suit in, or orders
of, a State court, such claims could materially interfere with the
lawful and equitable use of water for beneficial use by the other
water users who are amenable to and bound by the decrees and
orders of the State courts."
16
Thus, bearing in mind the ubiquitous nature of Indian
water rights in the Southwest, it is clear that a
construction of the Amendment excluding those rights
from its coverage would enervate the Amendment's
objective.
17
Finally, legislative history demonstrates that the
McCarran Amendment is to be construed as reaching
federal water rights reserved on behalf of Indians. It was
unmistakably the understanding of proponents and
opponents of the legislation that it comprehended water
rights reserved for Indians. In the Senate hearings on
the Amendment, participants for the Department of
Justice and the Department of the Interior made clear
that the proposal would include water rights reserved
on behalf of 
[424 U.S. 812]
 Indians.
18 
 In addition, the
Senate report on the Amendment took note of a
recommendation in a Department of the Interior report
that no consent to suit be given as to Indian rights and
rejected the recommendation.
19
The Government argues that because of its fiduciary
responsibility to protect Indian rights, any state-court
jurisdiction over Indian property should not be
recognized unless expressly conferred by Congress. It
has been recognized, however, that an action for the
destruction of personal property may be brought against
an Indian tribe where "[a]uthority to sue . . . is implied."
Turner v. United States, 248 U.S. 354, 358 (1919).
Moreover, the Government's argument rests on the
incorrect assumption that consent to state jurisdiction
for the purpose of determining water rights imperils
those rights or in some way breaches the special
obligation of the Federal Government to protect
Indians. Mere subjection of Indian rights to legal
challenge in state court, however, would no more
imperil those rights than would a suit brought by the
Government in district court for their declaration, a suit
which, absent the consent of the Amendment, would
eventually be necessitated to resolve conflicting claims
to a scarce resource. The Government has not abdicated
any responsibility fully to defend Indian rights in state
court, and Indian interests may be satisfactorily
protected under regimes of state law. See 25 U. S. C. 
§§
1321, 1322; 28 U. S. C. 
§
 1360.
20 
 Cf. 
[424 U.S. 813]
California Oregon Power Co. v. Beaver Portland
Cement Co., 295 U.S. 142, 164 n. 2 (1935). The
Amendment in no way abridges any substantive claim
on behalf of Indians under the doctrine of reserved
rights. Moreover, as Eagle County said, "questions
[arising from the collision of private rights and reserved
rights of the United States], including the volume and
scope of particular reserved rights, are federal questions
which, if preserved, can be reviewed [by the Supreme
Court] after final judgment by the Colorado court." 401
U. S., at 526.
B
Next, we consider whether the District Court's dismissal
was appropriate under the doctrine of abstention. We
hold that the dismissal cannot be supported under that
doctrine in any of its forms.
Abstention from the exercise of federal jurisdiction is
the exception, not the rule. "The doctrine of abstention,
under which a District Court may decline to exercise or
postpone the exercise of its jurisdiction, is an
extraordinary and narrow exception to the duty of a
District Court to adjudicate a controversy properly
before it. Abdication of the obligation to decide cases
can be justified under this doctrine only in the
exceptional circumstances where the order to the parties
to repair to the State court would clearly serve an
important countervailing interest." County of Allegheny
v. Frank Mashuda Co., 360 U.S. 185, 188-189 (1959).
"[I]t was 
[424 U.S. 814]
 never a doctrine of equity that a
federal court should exercise its judicial discretion to
dismiss a suit merely because a State court could
entertain it." Alabama Pub. Serv. Comm'n v. Southern
R. Co., 341 U.S. 341, 361 (1951) (Frankfurter, J.,
concurring in result). Our decisions have confined the
circumstances appropriate for abstention to three
general categories.
(a) Abstention is appropriate "in cases presenting a
federal constitutional issue which might be mooted or
presented in a different posture by a state court
determination of pertinent state law." County of
Allegheny v. Frank Mashuda Co., supra, at 189. See, e.
g., Lake Carriers Assn. v. MacMullan, 406 U.S. 498
(1972); United Gas Pipeline Co. v. Ideal Cement Co.,
369 U.S. 134 (1962); Railroad Comm'n of Texas v.
Pullman Co., 312 U.S. 496 (1941). This case, however,
presents no federal constitutional issue for decision.
(b) Abstention is also appropriate where there have
been presented difficult questions of state law bearing
on policy problems of substantial public import whose
importance transcends the result in the case then at bar.
Louisiana Power & Light Co. v. City of Thibodaux, 360
U.S. 25 (1959), for example, involved such a question. In
particular, the concern there was with the scope of the
eminent domain power of municipalities under state
law. See also Kaiser Steel Corp. v. W. S. Ranch Co., 391
U.S. 593 (1968); Hawks v. Hamill, 288 U.S. 52 (1933). In
some cases, however, the state question itself need not
be determinative of state policy. It is enough that
exercise of federal review of the question in a case and in
similar cases would be disruptive of state efforts to
establish a coherent policy with respect to a matter of
substantial public concern. In Burford v. Sun Oil Co.,
319 U.S. 315 (1943), for example, the Court held that a
suit seeking review of the reasonableness under Texas
state law of a state commission's permit to drill oil 
[424
U.S. 815]
 wells should have been dismissed by the
District Court. The reasonableness of the permit in that
case was not of transcendent importance, but review of
reasonableness by the federal courts in that and future
cases, where the State had established its own elaborate
review system for dealing with the geological
complexities of oil and gas fields, would have had an
impermissibly disruptive effect on state policy for the
management of those fields. See also Alabama Pub. Serv.
Comm'n v. Southern R. Co., supra.
21
The present case clearly does not fall within this second
category of abstention. While state claims are involved
in the case, the state law to be applied appears to be
settled. No questions bearing on state policy are
presented for decision. Nor will decision of the state
claims impair efforts to implement state policy as in
Burford. To be sure, the federal claims that are involved
[424 U.S. 816]
 in the case go to the establishment of
water rights which may conflict with similar rights
based on state law. But the mere potential for conflict in
the results of adjudications, does not, without more,
warrant staying exercise of federal jurisdiction. See
Meredith v. Winter Haven, 320 U.S. 228 (1943); Kline
v. Burke Constr. Co., 260 U.S. 226 (1922); McClellan v.
Carland, 217 U.S. 268 (1910). The potential conflict
here, involving state claims and federal claims, would
not be such as to impair impermissibly the State's effort
to effect its policy respecting the allocation of state
waters. Nor would exercise of federal jurisdiction here
interrupt any such efforts by restraining the exercise of
authority vested in state officers. See Pennsylvania v.
Williams, 294 U.S. 176 (1935); Hawks v. Hamill, supra.
(c) Finally, abstention is appropriate where, absent bad
faith, harassment, or a patently invalid state statute,
federal jurisdiction has been invoked for the purpose of
restraining state criminal proceedings, Younger v.
Harris, 401 U.S. 37 (1971); Douglas v. City of Jeannette,
319 U.S. 157 (1943);
22 
 state nuisance proceedings
antecedent to a criminal prosecution, which are directed
at obtaining the closure of places exhibiting obscene
films, Huffman v. Pursue, Ltd., 420 U.S. 592 (1975); or
collection of state taxes, Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co.
v. Huffman, 319 U.S. 293 (1943). Like the previous two
categories, this category also does not include this case.
We deal here neither with a criminal proceeding, nor
such a nuisance proceeding, nor a tax collection. We
also do not deal with an attempt to restrain such
actions
23 
 or to seek a 
[424 U.S. 817]
 declaratory
judgment as to the validity of a state criminal law under
which criminal proceedings are pending in a state court.
C
Although this case falls within none of the abstention
categories, there are principles unrelated to
considerations of proper constitutional adjudication and
regard for federal-state relations which govern in
situations involving the contemporaneous exercise of
concurrent jurisdictions, either by federal courts or by
state and federal courts. These principles rest on
considerations of "[w]ise judicial administration, giving
regard to conservation of judicial resources and
comprehensive disposition of litigation." Kerotest Mfg.
Co. v. C-O-Two Fire Equipment Co., 342 U.S. 180, 183
(1952). See Columbia Plaza Corp. v. Security National
Bank, 173 U. S. App. D. C. 403, 525 F.2d 620 (1975).
Generally, as between state and federal courts, the rule is
that "the pendency of an action in the state court is no
bar to proceedings concerning the same matter in the
Federal court having jurisdiction . . . ." McClellan v.
Carland, supra, at 282. See Donovan v. City of Dallas,
377 U.S. 408 (1964). As between federal district courts,
however, though no precise rule has evolved, the
general principle is to avoid duplicative litigation. See
Kerotest Mfg. Co. v. C-O-Two Fire Equipment Co.,
supra; Steelman v. All Continent Corp., 301 U.S. 278
(1937); Landis v. North American Co., 299 U.S. 248, 254
(1936). This difference in general approach between
state-federal concurrent jurisdiction and wholly federal
concurrent jurisdiction stems from the virtually
unflagging obligation of the federal courts to exercise
the jurisdiction given them. England v. Medical
Examiners, 375 U.S. 411, 415 (1964);
[424 U.S. 818]
McClellan v. Carland, supra, at 281; Cohens v. Virginia,
6 Wheat. 264, 404 (1821) (dictum). Given this
obligation, and the absence of weightier considerations
of constitutional adjudication and state-federal relations,
the circumstances permitting the dismissal of a federal
suit due to the presence of a concurrent state proceeding
for reasons of wise judicial administration are
considerably more limited than the circumstances
appropriate for abstention. The former circumstances,
though exceptional, do nevertheless exist.
It has been held, for example, that the court first
assuming jurisdiction over property may exercise that
jurisdiction to the exclusion of other courts. Donovan v.
City of Dallas, supra, at 412; Princess Lida v. Thompson,
305 U.S. 456, 466 (1939); United States v. Bank of New
York Co., 296 U.S. 463, 477 (1936). But cf. Markham v.
Allen, 326 U.S. 490 (1946); United States v. Klein, 303
U.S. 276 (1938). This has been true even where the
Government was a claimant in existing state
proceedings and then sought to invoke district-court
jurisdiction under the jurisdictional provision
antecedent to 28 U. S. C. 
§
 1345. United States v. Bank
of New York Co., supra, at 479. But cf. Leiter Minerals,
Inc. v. United States, 352 U.S. 220, 227-228 (1957). In
assessing the appropriateness of dismissal in the event of
an exercise of concurrent jurisdiction, a federal court
may also consider such factors as the inconvenience of
the federal forum, cf. Gulf Oil Corp. v. Gilbert, 330 U.S.
501 (1947); the desirability of avoiding piecemeal
litigation, cf. Brillhart v. Excess Ins. Co., 316 U.S. 491,
495 (1942); and the order in which jurisdiction was
obtained by the concurrent forums, Pacific Live Stock
Co. v. Oregon Water Bd., 241 U.S. 440, 447 (1916). No
one factor is necessarily determinative; a carefully
considered judgment taking into account both the
obligation to exercise jurisdiction and the combination
of factors counselling against that exercise 
[424 U.S. 819]
is required. See Landis v. North American Co., supra, at
254-255. Only the clearest of justifications will warrant
dismissal.
Turning to the present case, a number of factors clearly
counsel against concurrent federal proceedings. The
most important of these is the McCarran Amendment
itself. The clear federal policy evinced by that legislation
is the avoidance of piecemeal adjudication of water
rights in a river system. This policy is akin to that
underlying the rule requiring that jurisdiction be yielded
to the court first acquiring control of property, for the
concern in such instances is with avoiding the
generation of additional litigation through permitting
inconsistent dispositions of property. This concern is
heightened with respect to water rights, the
relationships among which are highly interdependent.
Indeed, we have recognized that actions seeking the
allocation of water essentially involve the disposition of
property and are best conducted in unified proceedings.
See Pacific Live Stock Co. v. Oregon Water Bd., supra,
at 449. The consent to jurisdiction given by the
McCarran Amendment bespeaks a policy that
recognizes the availability of comprehensive state
systems for adjudication of water rights as the means for
achieving these goals.
As has already been observed, the Colorado Water
Rights Determination and Administration Act
established such a system for the adjudication and
management of rights to the use of the State's waters. As
the Government concedes
24 
 and as this Court
recognized in Eagle County and Water Div. 5, the Act
established a single continuous proceeding for water
rights adjudication which antedated the suit in District
Court. United States v. District Court for Eagle County,
401 U. S., at 525; United States v. District Court for
Water Div. 5, 401 U. S., at 529.
[424 U.S. 820]
  That
proceeding "reaches all claims, perhaps month by month
but inclusively in the totality." Ibid. Additionally, the
responsibility of managing the State's waters, to the end
that they be allocated in accordance with adjudicated
water rights, is given to the State Engineer.
Beyond the congressional policy expressed by the
McCarran Amendment and consistent with furtherance
of that policy, we also find significant (a) the apparent
absence of any proceedings in the District Court, other
than the filing of the complaint, prior to the motion to
dismiss,
25 
 (b) the extensive involvement of state water
rights occasioned by this suit naming 1,000 defendants,
(c) the 300-mile distance between the District Court in
Denver and the court in Division 7, and (d) the existing
participation by the Government in Division 4, 5, and 6
proceedings. We emphasize, however, that we do not
overlook the heavy obligation to exercise jurisdiction.
We need not decide, for example, whether, despite the
McCarran Amendment, dismissal would be warranted if
more extensive proceedings had occurred in the District
Court prior to dismissal, if the involvement of state
water rights were less extensive than it is here, or if the
state proceeding were in some respect inadequate to
resolve the federal claims. But the opposing factors here,
particularly the policy underlying the McCarran
Amendment, justify the District Court's dismissal in this
particular case.
26
[424 U.S. 821]
 The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
reversed and the judgment of the District Court
dismissing the complaint is affirmed for the reasons here
stated.
It is so ordered.