MR. JUSTICE STEWART, with whom MR. JUSTICE
BLACKMUN and MR. JUSTICE STEVENS concur,
dissenting.
The Court says that the United States District Court for
the District of Colorado clearly had jurisdiction over this
lawsuit. I agree.
1 
 The Court further says that the
McCarran Amendment "in no way diminished" the
District Court's jurisdiction. I agree.
2 
 The Court also
says that federal courts have a "virtually unflagging
obligation. . . to exercise the jurisdiction given them." I
agree.
3 
 And finally, the Court says that nothing in the
abstention doctrine "in any of its forms" justified the
District Court's dismissal of the Government's
complaint. I agree.
4 
 These views would seem to lead
ineluctably to the conclusion that the District Court was
wrong in dismissing the complaint. Yet the Court holds
that the order of dismissal was "appropriate." With that
conclusion I must respectfully disagree.
[424 U.S. 822]
 In holding that the United States shall not
be allowed to proceed with its lawsuit, the Court relies
principally on cases reflecting the rule that where
"control of the property which is the subject of the suit
[is necessary] in order to proceed with the cause and to
grant the relief sought, the jurisdiction of one court
must of necessity yield to that of the other." Penn
General Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania ex rel. Schnader,
294 U.S. 189, 195. See also Donovan v. City of Dallas,
377 U.S. 408; Princess Lida v. Thompson, 305 U.S. 456;
United States v. Bank of New York Co., 296 U.S. 463.
But, as those cases make clear, this rule applies only
when exclusive control over the subject matter is
necessary to effectuate a court's judgment. 1A J. Moore,
Federal Practice 
¶
 0.214 (1974). Here the federal court
did not need to obtain in rem or quasi in rem
jurisdiction in order to decide the issues before it. The
court was asked simply to determine as a matter of
federal law whether federal reservations of water rights
had occurred, and, if so, the date and scope of the
reservations. The District Court could make such a
determination without having control of the river.
The rule invoked by the Court thus does not support the
conclusion that it reaches. In the Princess Lida case, for
example, the reason for the surrender of federal
jurisdiction over the administration of a trust was the
fact that a state court had already assumed jurisdiction
over the trust estate. But the Court in that case
recognized that this rationale "ha[d] no application to a
case in a federal court . . . wherein the plaintiff seeks
merely an adjudication of his right or his interest as a
basis of a claim against a fund in the possession of a state
court . . . ." 305 U. S., at 466. The Court stressed that
"[n]o question is presented in the federal court as to the
right of any person to participate in the res or as to the
quantum of his interest in it." Id., at 467. Similarly, in
the 
[424 U.S. 823]
 Bank of New York case, supra, the
Court stressed that the "object of the suits is to take the
property from the depositaries and from the control of
the state court, and to vest the property in the United
States . . . ." 296 U. S., at 478. "The suits are not merely
to establish a debt or a right to share in property, and
thus to obtain an adjudication which might be had
without disturbing the control of the state court." Ibid.
5
See also Markham v. Allen, 326 U.S. 490; United States
v. Klein, 303 U.S. 276. See generally 1A J. Moore,
Federal Practice 
¶
 0.222 (1974); 14 C. Wright, A. Miller,
& E. Cooper, Federal Practice & Procedure 
§
 3631, pp.
19-22 (1976).
The precedents cited by the Court thus not only fail to
support the Court's decision in this case, but expressly
point in the opposite direction. The present suit, in
short, is not analogous to the administration of a trust,
but rather to a claim of a "right to participate," since the
United States in this litigation does not ask the court to
control the administration of the river, but only to
determine its specific rights in the flow of water in the
river. This is an almost exact analogue to a suit seeking a
determination of rights in the flow of income from a
trust.
The Court's principal reason for deciding to close the
doors of the federal courthouse to the United States in
this case seems to stem from the view that its decision
will avoid piecemeal adjudication of water rights.
6 
 To
[424 U.S. 824]
 the extent that this view is based on the
special considerations governing in rem proceedings, it
is without precedential basis, as the decisions discussed
above demonstrate. To the extent that the Court's view
is based on the realistic practicalities of this case, it is
simply wrong, because the relegation of the
Government to the state courts will not avoid piecemeal
litigation.
The Colorado courts are currently engaged in two types
of proceedings under the State's water-rights law. First,
they are processing new claims to water based on recent
appropriations. Second, they are integrating these new
awards of water rights with all past decisions awarding
such rights into one all-inclusive tabulation for each
water source. The claims of the United States that are
involved in this case have not been adjudicated in the
past. Yet they do not involve recent appropriations of
water. In fact, these claims are wholly dissimilar to
normal state water claims, because they are not 
[424
U.S. 825]
 based on actual beneficial use of water but
rather on an intention formed at the time the federal
land use was established to reserve a certain amount of
water to support the federal reservations. The state
court will, therefore, have to conduct separate
proceedings to determine these claims. And only after
the state court adjudicates the claims will they be
incorporated into the water source tabulations. If this
suit were allowed to proceed in federal court the same
procedures would be followed, and the federal court
decree would be incorporated into the state tabulation,
as other federal court decrees have been incorporated in
the past. Thus, the same process will occur regardless of
which forum considers these claims. Whether the
virtually identical separate proceedings take place in a
federal court or a state court, the adjudication of the
claims will be neither more nor less "piecemeal."
Essentially the same process will be followed in each
instance.
7
As the Court says, it is the virtual "unflagging
obligation" of a federal court to exercise the jurisdiction
that has been conferred upon it. Obedience to that
obligation is particularly "appropriate" in this case, for at
least two reasons.
First, the issues involved are issues of federal law. A
federal court is more likely than a state court to be
familiar with federal water law and to have had
experience in interpreting the relevant federal statutes,
regulations, 
[424 U.S. 826]
 and Indian treaties.
Moreover, if tried in a federal court, these issues of
federal law will be reviewable in a federal appellate
court, whereas federal judicial review of the state courts'
resolution of issues of federal law will be possible only
on review by this Court in the exercise of its certiorari
jurisdiction.
Second, some of the federal claims in this lawsuit relate
to water reserved for Indian reservations. It is not
necessary to determine that there is no state-court
jurisdiction of these claims to support the proposition
that a federal court is a more appropriate forum than a
state court for determination of questions of life-and-
death importance to Indians. This Court has long
recognized that " `[t]he policy of leaving Indians free
from state jurisdiction and control is deeply rooted in
the Nation's history.' " McClanahan v. Arizona State Tax
Comm'n, 411 U.S. 164, 168, quoting Rice v. Olson, 324
U.S. 786, 789.
The Court says that "[o]nly the clearest of justifications
will warrant dismissal" of a lawsuit within the
jurisdiction of a federal court. In my opinion there was
no justification at all for the District Court's order of
dismissal in this case.
I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.