Mine Workers v. Gibbs, 383 U.S. 715, 725-726 (1966),
held:
"Pendent jurisdiction, in the sense of judicial power, exists
whenever there is a claim `arising under [the] Constitution, the
Laws of the United States, and Treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their Authority . . . ,' U. S. Const., Art. III, § 2, and the
relationship between that claim and the state claim permits the
conclusion that the entire action before the court comprises but one
constitutional `case.' The federal claim must have substance
sufficient to confer subject matter jurisdiction on the court. . . . The
state and federal claims must derive from a common nucleus of
operative fact. But if, considered without regard to their federal or
state character, a plaintiff's claims are such that he would ordinarily
be expected to try them all in one judicial proceeding, then,
assuming substantiality of the federal issues, there is power in
federal courts to hear the whole.
"That power need not be exercised in every case in which it is
found to exist. It has consistently been recognized that pendent
jurisdiction is a doctrine of discretion, not of plaintiff's right. Its
justification lies in considerations of judicial economy, convenience
and fairness to litigants; if these are not present a federal court
should hesitate to exercise [427 U.S. 20] jurisdiction over state
claims, even though bound to apply state law to them." (Footnotes
omitted.)
I
Gibbs concerned a state-law claim jurisdictionally
pendent to one of federal law, but no reason appears
why the identical principles should not equally apply to
pendent state-law claims involving the joinder of
additional parties. In either case the Art. III question
concerns only the subject matter and not the in
personam jurisdiction of the federal courts. In either
case the question of Art. III power in the federal
judiciary to exercise subject-matter jurisdiction concerns
whether the claims asserted are such as "would
ordinarily be expected to [be tried] in one judicial
proceeding," and the question of discretion addresses
"considerations of judicial economy, convenience and
fairness to litigants."
To recognize that the addition of parties under the
pendent jurisdiction of the federal courts will sometimes
alter the balance of "judicial economy, convenience and
fairness," or sometimes threaten to embroil federal
courts in the resolution of uncertain questions of state
law, and thereby make the exercise of this discretionary
jurisdiction inappropriate, is only to speak to the
question [427 U.S. 21] of the proper exercise of judicial
discretion in the circumstances and does not vitiate the
Gibbs analysis or its application to the question of
pendent-party jurisdiction. To fail to recognize the
applicability of Gibbs to the situation of pendent parties
as well as claims would often compel a result aptly
described by the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit:
" `[I]t would be an unjustifiable waste of judicial and professional
time—indeed, a travesty on sound judicial administration—to allow
plaintiff to try his [federal and state claims against certain
codefendants] in Federal court but to require him to prosecute a
claim involving precisely the same facts against [a codefendant
joined pursuant only to the pendent state-law claim] in a State
court,' " Schulman v. Huck Finn, Inc., 472 F.2d 864, 866 (1973)
(quoting 350 F.Supp. 853, 858 (Minn. 1972)).
In upholding an exercise of pendent-party jurisdiction
under Gibbs principles in that case, the Court of Appeals
reaffirmed, 472 F. 2d, at 867, an earlier decision of that
court by my Brother BLACKMUN, Hatridge v. Aetna
Cas. & Surety Co., 415 F.2d 809 (1969). Therein my
Brother BLACKMUN, applying Gibbs principles in
finding appropriate the exercise of federal pendentparty
jurisdiction, set forth an analysis with which I am
in complete accord:
"[In] appropriate cases [pendent-party jurisdiction] makes good
sense; it avoids forum shopping and multiple actions; it tends to
reduce costs for litigants; and it avoids the waste of already heavily
burdened judicial time." Id., at 817.
II
The Court today does not disclaim the applicability of
Gibbs to the question of federal pendent-party
jurisdiction. [427 U.S. 22] Rather, recognizing sub
silentio the absurd results it would create by a disclaimer
of the possibility of federal pendent-party
jurisdiction—whether under the label of "ancillary"
jurisdiction or that of "pendent party," see Moor v.
County of Alameda, 411 U.S. 693, 714-715 (1973)—in a
variety of possible contexts under various jurisdictional
statutes and the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the
Court declines "to lay down any sweeping
pronouncement upon the existence or exercise of such
jurisdiction." Ante, at 18. The Court instead reaches its
result—the proclamation of a per se rule forbidding
pendent jurisdiction over claims arising under state law
against local governmental units when joined with a §
1983 claim even where such claims "derive from a
common nucleus of operative fact"—by purporting to
find that "in this case Congress has by implication"
expressed its disapproval of federal pendent-party
jurisdiction "over a party such as Spokane County."
Ante, at 19. That result is demonstrably untenable.
The Court seeks to justify its per se rule by analysis of
the congressional will as expressed in the federal statutes
involved—28 U. S. C. § 1343 (3) and 42 U. S. C. § 1983.4
The test the Court announces is "whether by [427 U.S.
23] virtue of the statutory grant of subject-matter
jurisdiction, upon which petitioner's principal claim . . .
rests, Congress has addressed itself to the party as to
whom jurisdiction pendent to the principal claim is
sought." Ante, at 16. At one level of analysis, this test is
of course meaningless, being capable of application to all
cases, because all instances of asserted pendent-party
jurisdiction will by definition involve a party as to
whom Congress has impliedly "addressed itself" by not
expressly conferring subject-matter jurisdiction on the
federal courts. But, the Court says, it is drawing
"deductions . . . from [the] congressional statutes as to
whether Congress wanted to grant this sort of
jurisdiction to federal courts," ante, at 17, and it
"conclude[s] that in this case Congress has by
implication declined." Ante, at 19. It is apparent,
however, that analysis of the statutory enactments
involved, their legislative history, and the congressional
policies embodied therein belies the Court's assertion
that its purported test for determining the propriety of
pendent-party jurisdiction yields the result reached
today.
A
The purely jurisdictional statute involved in this case, 28
U. S. C. § 1343 (3), in no way speaks to the issue of
pendent-party jurisdiction in respect to joinder of
defendants under pendent state-law claims. On its face
that statute speaks only to jurisdiction over civil actions
[427 U.S. 24] "authorized by law to be commenced by
any person," and plainly does not address the question of
what parties shall be joined as defendants. Accordingly,
the Court necessarily argues its proposition from "the
scope of the cause of action," ante, at 17, created by §
1983. But the legislative history of that enactment
plainly gives no support to the Court's argument that
Congress by implication intended to preclude the
exercise of federal jurisdiction over state-law claims
against local governmental units where such jurisdiction
would otherwise lie under application of standard
principles.
Our precedents, Monroe v. Pape, 365 U.S. 167 (1961),
and Moor v. County of Alameda, supra, firmly establish
that the sole rationale for construing the "persons"
susceptible of liability under § 1983 as excluding local
units of government lies in the legislative history of the
so-called Sherman Amendment to the Act of April 20,
1871, § 1 of which enacted into law the first version of
the present § 1983.4 The Senate approved one version
of the Amendment proposed by Senator Sherman which
would have expressly provided for local governmental
liability, and the House rejected it. The Conference
Committee reported another version and the House
rejected the Conference Report. Thereafter, the Senate
acceded to the House rejection of the Sherman
Amendment and both Houses substituted in its place § 6
of the 1871 Act, the first version of the present 42 U. S.
C. § 1986. The rejection of the Sherman Amendment,
and nothing more, has been the basis upon which we
have [427 U.S. 25] construed § 1983 liability as not
encompassing local governmental units. Monroe v.
Pape, supra, at 188-191; Moor v. County of Alameda,
411 U. S., at 707-710. But as those cases recognize, the
reason for the House rejection of the Amendment, as
stated by Mr. Poland, House Manager of the Conference
Committee Report, was that "the House had solemnly
decided that in their judgment Congress had no
constitutional power to impose any obligation upon
county and town organizations, the mere
instrumentality for the administration of State law."
Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 1st Sess., 804 (1871) (emphasis
supplied). See Monroe v. Pape, supra, at 190; Moor v.
County of Alameda, supra, at 708. This judgment of the
House respecting its lack of constitutional power to
"impose . . . liability" "as a matter of federal law," id., at
710 n. 27 (emphasis in original), on local governmental
units pervades the legislative history of the aborted
Sherman Amendment.
In marked contrast in the legislative history of that
proposed Amendment, however, is the absence of
expression of hostility to federal judicial forums
entertaining claims arising under state law. The
opponents of the Sherman Amendment were, as the
legislative history reveals, fully aware of several existing
state laws respecting local government tort liability.
Moreover, the opponents of the proposed Amendment,
who consistently objected to the imposition of liability
upon local governmental units as a matter of substantive
federal law, also consistently expressed their views
respecting the entertainment [427 U.S. 26] in federal
forums of state-law claims against local governmental
units.
"[M]y colleague on this committee says that it is a common practice
for the courts of the United States, in the exercise of the judicial
powers granted to them in the Constitution, to enforce the
performance of judgments against municipalities of this kind, such
as counties and cities. I answer him that he, as well as any other
intelligent lawyer of this House, well knows that that proposition is
true to this extent only, that the Federal courts in the exercise of
this grant of judicial powers may, where they have the jurisdiction
under the Constitution, compel these municipalities to execute
their contracts, and that is all. To execute their contracts; but let it
be remembered that no decree of a Federal court has gone to the
extent of saying that any one of these divisions should execute its
own contracts except in precise compliance with the law of the
State, in precise accordance with its own contract and the law upon
which it was based, and not in pursuance of any law dictated to it by
Congress. In other words, the extent of judicial power hitherto
exercised in that direction has been confined to the execution of
civil contracts, such as the payment of corporation and municipal
bonds issued under State authority, where the courts of the United
States had jurisdiction, and then only according to the law of the
State recognizing and enforcing fully and kindly, and in all respects
within the precise letter of the Constitution, the right of the State to
govern itself, to regulate its municipal interests, to say whether a
county or State may subscribe to a railroad, may issue or put out
bonds and securities in a particular way, how those securities may
be made payable and their [427 U.S. 27] payment made certain. If
any county or city fails to perform its obligations its contracts can
be enforced." Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 1st Sess., 789 (1871)
(remarks of Mr. Kerr) (emphasis supplied).
"The gentleman from Ohio [Mr. Shellabarger] said this morning
that the Supreme Court has decided in favor of this power on the
part of Congress. It has done no such thing. Where a State has
authorized a city or county to make a contract, and when, under the
law of the State, they have made a contract binding themselves, the
Supreme Court of the United States has said that they were liable to
be sued for the enforcement of that contract. That is all the
Supreme Court of the United States have [sic] ever decided in
regard to the liability of municipal corporations. When the State
which created them has authorized them to bind themselves by a
contract, and they have done so, the court has very properly said
that the courts were open for the enforcement of such contracts, as
for enforcing the contracts of other parties. I PRESUME, TOO,
THAT WHERE A STATE HAD IMPOSED A DUTY UPON
SUCH MUNICIPALITY, AND PROVIDED THEY SHOULD BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES CAUSED BY FAILURE TO
PERFORM SUCH DUTY, THAT AN ACTION WOULD BE
ALLOWED TO BE MAINTAINED AGAINST THEM IN THE
COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES UNDER THE ORDINARY
RESTRICTIONS AS TO JURISDICTION. But the enforcing a
liability, existing by their own contract, or by a State law, in the
courts, is a very widely different thing from devolving a new duty
or liability upon them by the national Government, which has no
power either to create or destroy them, [427 U.S. 28] and no power
or control over them whatever." Id., at 794 (remarks of Mr. Poland)
(emphasis supplied).
"Congress has never asserted or attempted to assert, so far as I
know, any such authority. That amendment claims the power in
the General Government to go into the States of this Union and lay
such obligations as it may please upon the municipalities, which are
the creations of the States alone. Now, sir, that is an exceedingly
wide and sweeping power. I am unable to find a proper foundation
for it. Though I am not disposed here and now to discuss it very
minutely, I wish to say that thus far I am unable to see where the
authority can rest. I listened with the utmost respect, and with all
the attention in my power, to the argument of the gentleman from
Ohio, [Mr. Shellabarger,] the chairman of the committee of
conference, to see if I could ascertain just where he placed it, and I
think I shall do him no wrong when I say that he wholly failed to
show the House where the power resides. He did undertake to find
some parallel in other action of the judiciary of the United States
toward these municipalities, growing out of contracts; but, sir,
when a municipality, under the authority given by a State, makes a
contract it thereby lays itself liable to every remedy upon that
contract, and it is liable to be sued by its own consent, and with the
consent of the State that created it, in any court having jurisdiction
of the subject matter of that contract.
"This we all understand very well; but here it is proposed, not to
carry into effect an obligation which rests upon the municipality,
but to create that obligation, and that is the provision I am unable
[427 U.S. 29] to assent to." Id., at 795 (remarks of Mr. Blair)
(emphasis supplied).
". . . [I]n the first place, I wish to remark that the decisions that have
been referred to, those of Knox vs. Lee county and the others, go to
this extent only, if I understand rightly their scope: that where a
State imposes a duty upon county officers or State municipal
corporations, the exercise of which is necessary to give effect to
judgments or decrees of the United States courts, the latter can
enforce the performance of that duty. In other words, where by the
laws of a State the board of supervisors of a county, or the common
council of a city, are authorized to levy a tax and collect funds to pay
a judgment, for the purpose of enforcing satisfaction of the
judgment, the United States court, by mandamus can compel those
State officers, those officers of a municipal corporation, to perform
that duty.
"But there is no duty imposed by the Constitution of the United
States, or usually by State laws, upon a county to protect the people
of that county against the commission of the offenses herein
enumerated, such as the burning of buildings or any other injury to
property or injury to person. Police powers are not conferred upon
counties as corporations; they are conferred upon cities that have
qualified legislative power. AND SO FAR AS CITIES ARE
CONCERNED, WHERE THE EQUAL PROTECTION
REQUIRED TO BE AFFORDED BY A STATE IS IMPOSED
UPON A CITY BY STATE LAWS, PERHAPS THE UNITED
STATES COURTS COULD ENFORCE ITS PERFORMANCE."
Ibid. (remarks of Mr. Burchard) (emphasis supplied).
[427 U.S. 30] It is difficult to imagine a clearer
recognition by opponents of extension of liability under
federal law to a "person" of the difference between the
application of federal substantive law to a given party
and the entertainment of state-law claims respecting
that party in federal court, or an instance where the
legislative action is more clearly premised upon that
distinction. Although the Court purports to be
"deduc[ing]" the expressed congressional will as
manifested in statutes and their legislative history,
today's result is wholly belied by these crystal-clear
expressions.
B
Today's result not only is insupportable under the
Court's purported test for ascertaining the propriety of
pendent-party jurisdiction in the federal courts, but,
[427 U.S. 31] more importantly, it wholly disregards the
congressional intent and policy in enacting the various
Civil Rights Acts including the present § 1983. For, to
an extent perhaps unparalleled in our history, the postCivil
War Civil Rights Acts had as a focal point the
provision that claims brought under those Acts should
be entertained in federal judicial forums. The Civil
Rights Acts were enacted in an era of "national feeling
born of the Civil War. Nationalism was triumphant; in
national administration was sought its vindication." F.
Frankfurter & J. Landis, The Business of the Supreme
Court 64 (1928). Contemporaneous with the passage of
the Civil Rights Acts was the Act of March 3, 1875,
which, in conferring general federal-question
jurisdiction upon the federal courts, thereby made those
courts "the primary and powerful reliances for
vindicating every right given by the Constitution, the
laws, and treaties of the United States." Id., at 65;
Zwickler v. Koota, 389 U.S. 241, 247 (1967). "In thus
expanding federal judicial power, Congress imposed the
duty upon all levels of the federal judiciary to give due
respect to a suitor's choice of a federal forum for the
hearing and decision of his federal constitutional
claims." Id., at 248.
Although there has been disagreement among us upon
the question of the precise scope of § 1983, none of us
has heretofore denied "the fact that a powerful impulse
behind the creation of [§ 1983] was the purpose that it
be available in, and be shaped through, original federal
tribunals, " or has forgotten "how important providing a
federal trial court was among the several purposes of the
Ku Klux Act." Monroe v. Pape, 365 U. S., at 252, 251
(Frankfurter, J., dissenting) (emphasis supplied).
"The predecessor of § 1983 was . . . an important [427
U.S. 32] part of the basic alteration in our federal system
wrought in the Reconstruction era through federal
legislation and constitutional amendment. As a [427 U.S.
33] result of the new structure of law that emerged in
the post-Civil War era—and especially of the
Fourteenth Amendment, which was its centerpiece—the
role of the Federal Government as a guarantor of basic
federal rights against state power was clearly established.
. . . Section 1983 opened the federal courts to private
citizens, offering a uniquely federal remedy against
incursions under the claimed authority of state law upon
rights secured by the Constitution and laws of the
Nation." Mitchum v. Foster, 407 U.S. 225, 238-239
(1972) (footnotes omitted).
An extensive review of the legislative history of § 1983
in Monroe v. Pape, supra, at 173-180, led this Court to
conclude:
"It is abundantly clear that one reason the legislation was passed
was to afford a federal right in federal courts because, by reason of
prejudice, passion, neglect, intolerance or otherwise, state laws
might not be enforced and the claims of citizens to the enjoyment
of rights, privileges, and immunities guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment might be denied by the state agencies." 365 U. S., at
180; id., at 193 (Harlan, J., concurring).
Review of that same legislative history in Mitchum v.
Foster, supra, at 238-242, led us to proclaim it
[427 U.S. 34] "evident that Congress clearly conceived that it was
altering the relationship between the States and the Nation with
respect to the protection of federally created rights; it was
concerned that state instrumentalities could not protect those
rights; it realized that state officers might, in fact, be antipathetic to
the vindication of those rights; and it believed that these failings
extended to the state courts.
.....
"Section 1983 was thus a product of a vast transformation from the
concepts of federalism that had prevailed in the late 18th century . .
. . The very purpose of § 1983 was to interpose the federal courts
between the States and the people, as guardians of the people's
federal rights—to protect the people from unconstitutional action
under color of state law, `whether that action be executive,
legislative, or judicial.' " 407 U. S., at 242.
But by the announcement of its per se rule today, the
Court undermines past teachings that the availability of
a federal forum for claims brought pursuant to § 1983 is
crucially important, and in one fell swoop erases the
legislative [427 U.S. 35] intent that those teachings
reflect. After today, a suitor seeking redress in a federal
forum under § 1983 and redress for the same wrongs
under state law must split his case, and he is remitted to
duplicative litigation no matter how expensive, wasteful,
and needless. Regardless of the balance of the
discretionary factors enunciated in Gibbs; regardless of
the clarity of state law respecting the pendent claim
against the local governmental unit, cf. Wechsler,
Federal Jurisdiction and the Revision of the Judicial
Code, 13 Law & Contemp. Prob. 216, 232-233 (1948);
regardless of the absolute [427 U.S. 36] identity of factual
issues between the two claims, see Kates & Kouba,
Liability of Public Entities Under Section 1983 of the
Civil Rights Act, 45 S. Cal. L. Rev. 131, 162-163 (1972);
regardless of the monetary expense and other
disadvantages of duplicate litigation, see Fortune,
Pendent Jurisdiction—The Problem of "Pendenting
Parties," 34 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 1, 8-9 (1972); regardless of
the waste of judicial time and the "travesty on sound
judicial administration," supra, at 21, the Court by its
per se rule forces upon a litigant the indefensible choice
of either suffering the costs of duplicate litigation or
forgoing his right, a right emphatically emphasized in
the congressional policy, to a federal forum in which to
be heard on his federal claim. To say that the suitor has
available a state forum in which conveniently to litigate
both his claims, ante, at 15, is patently to ignore the
real issue, for it is painfully obvious that this does not
result in a neutral choice by the suitor among available
forums; rather it imparts a fundamental bias against
utilization of the federal forum owing to the deterrent
effect imposed by the needless requirement of duplicate
litigation if the federal forum is chosen. P. Bator, P.
Mishkin, D. Shapiro & H. Wechsler, Hart and
Wechsler's The Federal Courts and the Federal System
922-923 (2d ed. 1973). Accordingly, rather than [427
U.S. 37] paying "due respect to a suitor's choice of a
federal forum for the hearing and decision of his federal
constitutional claims," Zwickler v. Koota, 389 U. S., at
248, the Court today rides roughshod over this
congressionally imposed duty and reaches a result that
flies in the face of the expressed congressional intent. I
dissent.