The issue before us is whether, consistently with the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, an
Oklahoma court may exercise in personam jurisdiction
over a nonresident automobile retailer and its wholesale
distributor in a products-liability action, when the
defendants' only connection with Oklahoma is the fact
that an automobile sold in New York to New York
residents became involved in an accident in Oklahoma.
[444 U.S. 288] I
Respondents Harry and Kay Robinson purchased a new
Audi automobile from petitioner Seaway Volkswagen,
Inc. (Seaway), in Massena, N. Y., in 1976. The following
year the Robinson family, who resided in New York, left
that State for a new home in Arizona. As they passed
through the State of Oklahoma, another car struck their
Audi in the rear, causing a fire which severely burned
Kay Robinson and her two children.1
The Robinsons2 subsequently brought a productsliability
action in the District Court for Creek County,
Okla., claiming that their injuries resulted from
defective design and placement of the Audi's gas tank
and fuel system. They joined as defendants the
automobile's manufacturer, Audi NSU Auto Union
Aktiengesellschaft (Audi); its importer, Volkswagen of
America, Inc. (Volkswagen); its regional distributor,
petitioner World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. (WorldWide);
and its retail dealer, petitioner Seaway. Seaway
and World-Wide entered special appearances,3 claiming
that Oklahoma's exercise of jurisdiction over them
would offend the limitations on the State's jurisdiction
imposed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.4
The facts presented to the District Court showed that
World-Wide is incorporated and has its business office
in New [444 U.S. 289] York. It distributes vehicles, parts,
and accessories, under contract with Volkswagen, to
retail dealers in New York, New Jersey, and
Connecticut. Seaway, one of these retail dealers, is
incorporated and has its place of business in New York.
Insofar as the record reveals, Seaway and World-Wide
are fully independent corporations whose relations with
each other and with Volkswagen and Audi are
contractual only. Respondents adduced no evidence that
either World-Wide or Seaway does any business in
Oklahoma, ships or sells any products to or in that State,
has an agent to receive process there, or purchases
advertisements in any media calculated to reach
Oklahoma. In fact, as respondents' counsel conceded at
oral argument, Tr. of Oral Arg. 32, there was no
showing that any automobile sold by World-Wide or
Seaway has ever entered Oklahoma with the single
exception of the vehicle involved in the present case.
Despite the apparent paucity of contacts between
petitioners and Oklahoma, the District Court rejected
their constitutional claim and reaffirmed that ruling in
denying petitioners' motion for reconsideration.5
Petitioners then sought a writ of prohibition in the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma to restrain the District
Judge, respondent Charles S. Woodson, from exercising
in personam jurisdiction over them. They renewed their
contention that, because they had no "minimal
contacts," App. 32, with the State of Oklahoma, the
actions of the District Judge were in violation of their
rights under the Due Process Clause.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma denied the writ, 585
P.2d 351 (1978),6 holding that personal jurisdiction over
petitioners was authorized by Oklahoma's "long-arm"
statute, [444 U.S. 290] Okla. Stat., Tit. 12, § 1701.03 (a)
(4) (1971).7 Although the court noted that the proper
approach was to test jurisdiction against both statutory
and constitutional standards, its analysis did not
distinguish these questions, probably because § 1701.03
(a) (4) has been interpreted as conferring jurisdiction to
the limits permitted by the United States Constitution.8
The court's rationale was contained in the following
paragraph, 585 P. 2d, at 354:
"In the case before us, the product being sold and distributed by the
petitioners is by its very design and purpose so mobile that
petitioners can foresee its possible use in Oklahoma. This is
especially true of the distributor, who has the exclusive right to
distribute such automobile in New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut. The evidence presented below demonstrated that
goods sold and distributed by the petitioners were used in the State
of Oklahoma, and under the facts we believe it reasonable to infer,
given the retail value of the automobile, that the petitioners derive
substantial income from automobiles which from time to time are
used in the State of Oklahoma. This being the case, we hold that
under the facts presented, the trial court was justified in concluding
[444 U.S. 291] that the petitioners derive substantial revenue from
goods used or consumed in this State."
We granted certiorari, 440 U.S. 907 (1979), to consider
an important constitutional question with respect to
state-court jurisdiction and to resolve a conflict between
the Supreme Court of Oklahoma and the highest courts
of at least four other States.9 We reverse.
II
The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
limits the power of a state court to render a valid
personal judgment against a nonresident defendant.
Kulko v. California Superior Court, 436 U.S. 84, 91
(1978). A judgment rendered in violation of due process
is void in the rendering State and is not entitled to full
faith and credit elsewhere. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S.
714, 732-733 (1878). Due process requires that the
defendant be given adequate notice of the suit, Mullane
v. Central Hanover Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306, 313-314
(1950), and be subject to the personal jurisdiction of the
court, International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S.
310 (1945). In the present case, it is not contended that
notice was inadequate; the only question is whether
these particular petitioners were subject to the
jurisdiction of the Oklahoma courts.
As has long been settled, and as we reaffirm today, a
state court may exercise personal jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant only so long as there exist
"minimum contacts" between the defendant and the
forum State. International Shoe Co. v. Washington,
supra, at 316. The concept of minimum contacts, in
turn, can be seen to perform two related, but [444 U.S.
292] distinguishable, functions. It protects the defendant
against the burdens of litigating in a distant or
inconvenient forum. And it acts to ensure that the
States, through their courts, do not reach out beyond
the limits imposed on them by their status as coequal
sovereigns in a federal system.
The protection against inconvenient litigation is
typically described in terms of "reasonableness" or
"fairness." We have said that the defendant's contacts
with the forum State must be such that maintenance of
the suit "does not offend `traditional notions of fair play
and substantial justice.'" International Shoe Co. v.
Washington, supra, at 316, quoting Milliken v. Meyer,
311 U.S. 457, 463 (1940). The relationship between the
defendant and the forum must be such that it is
"reasonable . . . to require the corporation to defend the
particular suit which is brought there." 326 U. S., at 317.
Implicit in this emphasis on reasonableness is the
understanding that the burden on the defendant, while
always a primary concern, will in an appropriate case be
considered in light of other relevant factors, including
the forum State's interest in adjudicating the dispute, see
McGee v. International Life Ins. Co., 355 U.S. 220, 223
(1957); the plaintiff's interest in obtaining convenient
and effective relief, see Kulko v. California Superior
Court, supra, at 92, at least when that interest is not
adequately protected by the plaintiff's power to choose
the forum, cf. Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U.S. 186, 211, n.
37 (1977); the interstate judicial system's interest in
obtaining the most efficient resolution of controversies;
and the shared interest of the several States in furthering
fundamental substantive social policies, see Kulko v.
California Superior Court, supra, at 93, 98.
The limits imposed on state jurisdiction by the Due
Process Clause, in its role as a guarantor against
inconvenient litigation, have been substantially relaxed
over the years. As we noted in McGee v. International
Life Ins. Co., supra, at 222-223 [444 U.S. 293] this trend
is largely attributable to a fundamental transformation
in the American economy:
"Today many commercial transactions touch two or more States
and may involve parties separated by the full continent. With this
increasing nationalization of commerce has come a great increase in
the amount of business conducted by mail across state lines. At the
same time modern transportation and communication have made it
much less burdensome for a party sued to defend himself in a State
where he engages in economic activity."
The historical developments noted in McGee, of course,
have only accelerated in the generation since that case
was decided.
Nevertheless, we have never accepted the proposition
that state lines are irrelevant for jurisdictional purposes,
nor could we, and remain faithful to the principles of
interstate federalism embodied in the Constitution. The
economic interdependence of the States was foreseen
and desired by the Framers. In the Commerce Clause,
they provided that the Nation was to be a common
market, a "free trade unit" in which the States are
debarred from acting as separable economic entities. H.
P. Hood & Sons, Inc. v. Du Mond, 336 U.S. 525, 538
(1949). But the Framers also intended that the States
retain many essential attributes of sovereignty,
including, in particular, the sovereign power to try
causes in their courts. The sovereignty of each State, in
turn, implied a limitation on the sovereignty of all of its
sister States—a limitation express or implicit in both the
original scheme of the Constitution and the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Hence, even while abandoning the shibboleth that "[t]he
authority of every tribunal is necessarily restricted by
the territorial limits of the State in which it is
established," Pennoyer v. Neff, supra, at 720, we
emphasized that the reasonableness of asserting
jurisdiction over the defendant must be assessed "in the
context of our federal system of government," [444 U.S.
294] International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U. S., at
317, and stressed that the Due Process Clause ensures
not only fairness, but also the "orderly administration of
the laws," id., at 319. As we noted in Hanson v. Denckla,
357 U.S. 235, 250-251 (1958):
"As technological progress has increased the flow of commerce
between the States, the need for jurisdiction over nonresidents has
undergone a similar increase. At the same time, progress in
communications and transportation has made the defense of a suit
in a foreign tribunal less burdensome. In response to these changes,
the requirements for personal jurisdiction over nonresidents have
evolved from the rigid rule of Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714, to the
flexible standard of International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S.
310. But it is a mistake to assume that this trend heralds the
eventual demise of all restrictions on the personal jurisdiction of
state courts. [Citation omitted.] Those restrictions are more than a
guarantee of immunity from inconvenient or distant litigation.
They are a consequence of territorial limitations on the power of
the respective States."
Thus, the Due Process Clause "does not contemplate
that a state may make binding a judgment in personam
against an individual or corporate defendant with which
the state has no contacts, ties, or relations."
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, supra, at 319.
Even if the defendant would suffer minimal or no
inconvenience from being forced to litigate before the
tribunals of another State; even if the forum State has a
strong interest in applying its law to the controversy;
even if the forum State is the most convenient location
for litigation, the Due Process Clause, acting as an
instrument of interstate federalism, may sometimes act
to divest the State of its power to render a valid
judgment. Hanson v. Denckla, supra, at 251, 254.
[444 U.S. 295] III
Applying these principles to the case at hand,10 we find
in the record before us a total absence of those affiliating
circumstances that are a necessary predicate to any
exercise of state-court jurisdiction. Petitioners carry on
no activity whatsoever in Oklahoma. They close no sales
and perform no services there. They avail themselves of
none of the privileges and benefits of Oklahoma law.
They solicit no business there either through
salespersons or through advertising reasonably
calculated to reach the State. Nor does the record show
that they regularly sell cars at wholesale or retail to
Oklahoma customers or residents or that they indirectly,
through others, serve or seek to serve the Oklahoma
market. In short, respondents seek to base jurisdiction
on one, isolated occurrence and whatever inferences can
be drawn therefrom: the fortuitous circumstance that a
single Audi automobile, sold in New York to New York
residents, happened to suffer an accident while passing
through Oklahoma.
It is argued, however, that because an automobile is
mobile by its very design and purpose it was
"foreseeable" that the Robinsons' Audi would cause
injury in Oklahoma. Yet "foreseeability" alone has never
been a sufficient benchmark for personal jurisdiction
under the Due Process Clause. In Hanson v. Denckla,
supra, it was no doubt foreseeable that the settlor of a
Delaware trust would subsequently move to Florida and
seek to exercise a power of appointment there; yet we
held that Florida courts could not constitutionally [444
U.S. 296] exercise jurisdiction over a Delaware trustee
that had no other contacts with the forum State. In
Kulko v. California Superior Court, 436 U.S. 84 (1978),
it was surely "foreseeable" that a divorced wife would
move to California from New York, the domicile of the
marriage, and that a minor daughter would live with the
mother. Yet we held that California could not exercise
jurisdiction in a child-support action over the former
husband who had remained in New York.
If foreseeability were the criterion, a local California tire
retailer could be forced to defend in Pennsylvania when
a blowout occurs there, see Erlanger Mills, Inc. v.
Cohoes Fibre Mills, Inc., 239 F.2d 502, 507 (CA4 1956);
a Wisconsin seller of a defective automobile jack could
be haled before a distant court for damage caused in
New Jersey, Reilly v. Phil Tolkan Pontiac, Inc., 372
F.Supp. 1205 (NJ 1974); or a Florida soft-drink
concessionaire could be summoned to Alaska to account
for injuries happening there, see Uppgren v. Executive
Aviation Services, Inc., 304 F.Supp. 165, 170-171
(Minn. 1969). Every seller of chattels would in effect
appoint the chattel his agent for service of process. His
amenability to suit would travel with the chattel. We
recently abandoned the outworn rule of Harris v. Balk,
198 U.S. 215 (1905), that the interest of a creditor in a
debt could be extinguished or otherwise affected by any
State having transitory jurisdiction over the debtor.
Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U.S. 186 (1977). Having interred
the mechanical rule that a creditor's amenability to a
quasi in rem action travels with his debtor, we are
unwilling to endorse an analogous principle in the
present case.11
[444 U.S. 297] This is not to say, of course, that
foreseeability is wholly irrelevant. But the foreseeability
that is critical to due process analysis is not the mere
likelihood that a product will find its way into the forum
State. Rather, it is that the defendant's conduct and
connection with the forum State are such that he should
reasonably anticipate being haled into court there. See
Kulko v. California Superior Court, supra, at 97-98;
Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U. S., at 216; and see id., at 217-
219 (STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment). The Due
Process Clause, by ensuring the "orderly administration
of the laws," International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326
U. S., at 319, gives a degree of predictability to the legal
system that allows potential defendants to structure
their primary conduct with some minimum assurance as
to where that conduct will and will not render them
liable to suit.
When a corporation "purposefully avails itself of the
privilege of conducting activities within the forum
State," Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U. S., at 253, it has clear
notice that it is subject to suit there, and can act to
alleviate the risk of burdensome litigation by procuring
insurance, passing the expected costs on to customers,
or, if the risks are too great, severing its connection with
the State. Hence if the sale of a product of a
manufacturer or distributor such as Audi or
Volkswagen is not simply an isolated occurrence, but
arises from the efforts of the manufacturer or
distributor to serve, directly or indirectly, the market for
its product in other States, it is not unreasonable to
subject it to suit in one of those States if its allegedly
defective merchandise has there been the source of
injury to its owner or to others. The forum State does
not [444 U.S. 298] exceed its powers under the Due
Process Clause if it asserts personal jurisdiction over a
corporation that delivers its products into the stream of
commerce with the expectation that they will be
purchased by consumers in the forum State. Cf. Gray v.
American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp., 22 Ill.2d
432, 176 N.E.2d 761 (1961).
But there is no such or similar basis for Oklahoma
jurisdiction over World-Wide or Seaway in this case.
Seaway's sales are made in Massena, N. Y. WorldWide's
market, although substantially larger, is limited
to dealers in New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut.
There is no evidence of record that any automobiles
distributed by World-Wide are sold to retail customers
outside this tristate area. It is foreseeable that the
purchasers of automobiles sold by World-Wide and
Seaway may take them to Oklahoma. But the mere
"unilateral activity of those who claim some relationship
with a nonresident defendant cannot satisfy the
requirement of contact with the forum State." Hanson v.
Denckla, supra, at 253.
In a variant on the previous argument, it is contended
that jurisdiction can be supported by the fact that
petitioners earn substantial revenue from goods used in
Oklahoma. The Oklahoma Supreme Court so found,
585 P. 2d, at 354-355, drawing the inference that
because one automobile sold by petitioners had been
used in Oklahoma, others might have been used there
also. While this inference seems less than compelling on
the facts of the instant case, we need not question the
court's factual findings in order to reject its reasoning.
This argument seems to make the point that the
purchase of automobiles in New York, from which the
petitioners earn substantial revenue, would not occur
but for the fact that the automobiles are capable of use in
distant States like Oklahoma. Respondents observe that
the very purpose of an automobile is to travel, and that
travel of automobiles sold by petitioners is facilitated by
an extensive chain of Volkswagen service centers
throughout the country, including some in Oklahoma.12
[444 U.S. 299] However, financial benefits accruing to
the defendant from a collateral relation to the forum
State will not support jurisdiction if they do not stem
from a constitutionally cognizable contact with that
State. See Kulko v. California Superior Court, 436 U. S.,
at 94-95. In our view, whatever marginal revenues
petitioners may receive by virtue of the fact that their
products are capable of use in Oklahoma is far too
attenuated a contact to justify that State's exercise of in
personam jurisdiction over them.
Because we find that petitioners have no "contacts, ties,
or relations" with the State of Oklahoma, International
Shoe Co. v. Washington, supra, at 319, the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Oklahoma is
Reversed.