I confess that I am somewhat puzzled why the plaintiffs
in this litigation are so insistent that the regional
distributor and the retail dealer, the petitioners here,
who handled the ill-fated Audi automobile involved in
this litigation, be named defendants. It would appear
that the manufacturer and the [444 U.S. 318] importer,
whose subjectability to Oklahoma jurisdiction is not
challenged before this Court, ought not to be judgmentproof.
It may, of course, ultimately amount to a contest
between insurance companies that, once begun, is not
easily brought to a termination. Having made this much
of an observation, I pursue it no further.
For me, a critical factor in the disposition of the
litigation is the nature of the instrumentality under
consideration. It has been said that we are a nation on
wheels. What we are concerned with here is the
automobile and its peripatetic character. One need only
examine our national network of interstate highways, or
make an appearance on one of them, or observe the
variety of license plates present not only on those
highways but in any metropolitan area, to realize that
any automobile is likely to wander far from its place of
licensure or from its place of distribution and retail sale.
Miles per gallon on the highway (as well as in the city)
and mileage per thankful are familiar allegations in
manufacturers' advertisements today. To expect that any
new automobile will remain in the vicinity of its retail
sale—like the 1914 electric car driven by the proverbial
"little old lady"—is to blink at reality. The automobile is
intended for distance as well as for transportation
within a limited area.
It therefore seems to me not unreasonable—and
certainly not unconstitutional and beyond the reach of
the principles laid down in International Shoe Co. v.
Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945), and its progeny—to
uphold Oklahoma jurisdiction over this New York
distributor and this New York dealer when the accident
happened in Oklahoma. I see nothing more unfair for
them than for the manufacturer and the importer. All
are in the business of providing vehicles that spread out
over the highways of our several States. It is not too
much to anticipate at the time of distribution and at the
time of retail sale that this Audi would be in Oklahoma.
Moreover, in assessing "minimum contacts," foreseeable
use in another State seems to me to be little different
from foreseeable resale [444 U.S. 319] in another State.
Yet the Court declares this distinction determinate.
Ante, at 297-299.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN points out in his dissent,
ante, at 307, that an automobile dealer derives
substantial benefits from States other than its own. The
same is true of the regional distributor. Oklahoma does
its best to provide safe roads. Its police investigate
accidents. It regulates driving within the State. It
provides aid to the victim and thereby, it is hoped,
lessens damages. Accident reports are prepared and
made available. All this contributes to and enhances the
business of those engaged professionally in the
distribution and sale of automobiles. All this also may
benefit defendants in the very lawsuits over which the
State asserts jurisdiction.
My position need not now take me beyond the
automobile and the professional who does business by
way of distributing and retailing automobiles. Cases
concerning other instrumentalities will be dealt with as
they arise and in their own contexts.
I would affirm the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma. Because the Court reverses that judgment, it
will now be about parsing every variant in the myriad of
motor vehicle fact situations that present themselves.
Some will justify jurisdiction and others will not. All will
depend on the "contact" that the Court sees fit to
perceive in the individual case.