For over 30 years the standard by which to measure the
constitutionally permissible reach of state-court
jurisdiction has been well established:
"[D]ue process requires only that in order to subject a defendant to
a judgment in personam, if he be not present within the territory of
the forum, he have certain minimum contacts with it such that the
maintenance of the suit does not offend `traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.'" International Shoe Co. v. Washington,
326 U.S. 310, 316 (1945), quoting Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U.S. 457,
463 (1940).
The corollary, that the Due Process Clause forbids the
assertion of jurisdiction over a defendant "with which
the state has no contacts, ties, or relations," 326 U. S., at
319, is equally clear. The concepts of fairness and
substantial justice as applied to an evaluation of "the
quality and nature of the [defendant's] activity," ibid.,
are not readily susceptible of further definition,
however, and it is not surprising that the constitutional
standard is easier to state than to apply.
This is a difficult case, and reasonable minds may differ
as to whether respondents have alleged a sufficient
"relationship among the defendant[s], the forum, and
the litigation," Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U.S. 186, 204
(1977), to satisfy the requirements of International Shoe.
I am concerned, however, that the majority has reached
its result by taking an unnecessarily narrow view of
petitioners' forum-related conduct. The majority asserts
that "respondents seek to base jurisdiction on one,
isolated occurrence and whatever inferences can be
drawn therefrom: the fortuitous circumstance that a
single Audi automobile, sold in New York to New York
[444 U.S. 314] residents, happened to suffer an accident
while passing through Oklahoma." Ante, at 295. If that
were the case, I would readily agree that the minimum
contacts necessary to sustain jurisdiction are not
present. But the basis for the assertion of jurisdiction is
not the happenstance that an individual over whom
petitioners had no control made a unilateral decision to
take a chattel with him to a distant State. Rather,
jurisdiction is premised on the deliberate and purposeful
actions of the defendants themselves in choosing to
become part of a nationwide, indeed a global, network
for marketing and servicing automobiles.
Petitioners are sellers of a product whose utility derives
from its mobility. The unique importance of the
automobile in today's society, which is discussed in MR.
JUSTICE BLACKMUN'S dissenting opinion, post, at
318, needs no further elaboration. Petitioners know that
their customers buy cars not only to make short trips,
but also to travel long distances. In fact, the nationwide
service network with which they are affiliated was
designed to facilitate and encourage such travel. Seaway
would be unlikely to sell many cars if authorized service
were available only in Massena, N. Y. Moreover, local
dealers normally derive a substantial portion of their
revenues from their service operations and thereby
obtain a further economic benefit from the opportunity
to service cars which were sold in other States. It is
apparent that petitioners have not attempted to
minimize the chance that their activities will have effects
in other States; on the contrary, they have chosen to do
business in a way that increases that chance, because it is
to their economic advantage to do so.
To be sure, petitioners could not know in advance that
this particular automobile would be driven to
Oklahoma. They must have anticipated, however, that a
substantial portion of the cars they sold would travel out
of New York. Seaway, a local dealer in the second most
populous State, and World-Wide, [444 U.S. 315] one of
only seven regional Audi distributors in the entire
country, see Brief for Respondents 2, would scarcely
have been surprised to learn that a car sold by them had
been driven in Oklahoma on Interstate 44, a heavily
traveled transcontinental highway. In the case of the
distributor, in particular, the probability that some of
the cars it sells will be driven in every one of the
contiguous States must amount to a virtual certainty.
This knowledge should alert a reasonable businessman
to the likelihood that a defect in the product might
manifest itself in the forum State—not because of some
unpredictable, aberrant, unilateral action by a single
buyer, but in the normal course of the operation of the
vehicles for their intended purpose.
It is misleading for the majority to characterize the
argument in favor of jurisdiction as one of
"`foreseeability' alone." Ante, at 295. As economic
entities petitioners reach out from New York,
knowingly causing effects in other States and receiving
economic advantage both from the ability to cause such
effects themselves and from the activities of dealers and
distributors in other States. While they did not receive
revenue from making direct sales in Oklahoma, they
intentionally became part of an interstate economic
network, which included dealerships in Oklahoma, for
pecuniary gain. In light of this purposeful conduct I do
not believe it can be said that petitioners "had no reason
to expect to be haled before a[n Oklahoma] court."
Shaffer v. Heitner, supra, at 216; see ante, at 297, and
Kulko v. California Superior Court, 436 U.S. 84, 97-98
(1978).
The majority apparently acknowledges that if a product
is purchased in the forum State by a consumer, that
State may assert jurisdiction over everyone in the chain
of distribution. See ante, at 297-298. With this I agree.
But I cannot agree that jurisdiction is necessarily lacking
if the product enters the State not through the channels
of distribution but in the course of its intended use by
the consumer. We have recognized [444 U.S. 316] the
role played by the automobile in the expansion of our
notions of personal jurisdiction. See Shaffer v. Heitner,
supra, at 204; Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U.S. 352 (1927).
Unlike most other chattels, which may find their way
into States far from where they were purchased because
their owner takes them there, the intended use of the
automobile is precisely as a means of traveling from one
place to another. In such a case, it is highly artificial to
restrict the concept of the "stream of commerce" to the
chain of distribution from the manufacturer to the
ultimate consumer.
I sympathize with the majority's concern that persons
ought to be able to structure their conduct so as not to
be subject to suit in distant forums. But that may not
always be possible. Some activities by their very nature
may foreclose the option of conducting them in such a
way as to avoid subjecting oneself to jurisdiction in
multiple forums. This is by no means to say that all
sellers of automobiles should be subject to suit
everywhere; but a distributor of automobiles to a
multistate market and a local automobile dealer who
makes himself part of a nationwide network of
dealerships can fairly expect that the cars they sell may
cause injury in distant States and that they may be called
on to defend a resulting lawsuit there.
In light of the quality and nature of petitioners' activity,
the majority's reliance on Kulko v. California Superior
Court, supra, is misplaced. Kulko involved the assertion
of state-court jurisdiction over a nonresident individual
in connection with an action to modify his child custody
rights and support obligations. His only contact with the
forum State was that he gave his minor child permission
to live there with her mother. In holding that the
exercise of jurisdiction violated the Due Process Clause,
we emphasized that the cause of action as well as the
defendant's actions in relation to the forum State arose
"not from the defendant's commercial transactions in
interstate commerce, but rather from his personal, [444
U.S. 317] domestic relations," 436 U. S., at 97 (emphasis
supplied), contrasting Kulko's actions with those of the
insurance company in McGee v. International Life Ins.
Co., 355 U.S. 220 (1957), which were undertaken for
commercial benefit.*
Manifestly, the "quality and nature" of commercial
activity is different, for purposes of the International
Shoe test, from actions from which a defendant obtains
no economic advantage. Commercial activity is more
likely to cause effects in a larger sphere, and the actor
derives an economic benefit from the activity that makes
it fair to require him to answer for his conduct where its
effects are felt. The profits may be used to pay the costs
of suit, and knowing that the activity is likely to have
effects in other States the defendant can readily insure
against the costs of those effects, thereby sparing himself
much of the inconvenience of defending in a distant
forum.
Of course, the Constitution forbids the exercise of
jurisdiction if the defendant had no judicially cognizable
contacts with the forum. But as the majority
acknowledges, if such contacts are present the
jurisdictional inquiry requires a balancing of various
interests and policies. See ante, at 292; Rush v. Savchuk,
post, at 332. I believe such contacts are to be found here
and that, considering all of the interests and policies at
stake, requiring petitioners to defend this action in
Oklahoma is not beyond the bounds of the Constitution.
Accordingly, I dissent.