I join the opinion of the Court except for Part IV-B. I
agree with Part IV-B insofar as the Court holds that
qualified and independent assistance must be provided
to an inmate who is threatened with involuntary
transfer to a state mental hospital. I do not agree,
however, that the requirement of independent
assistance demands that a licensed attorney be
provided.
1
[445 U.S. 498]
 I
In Gagnon v. Scarpelli, 411 U.S. 778 (1973), my opinion
for the Court held that counsel is not necessarily
required at a probation revocation hearing. In reaching
this decision the Court recognized both the effects of
providing counsel to each probationer and the likely
benefits to be derived from the assistance of counsel.
"The introduction of counsel into a revocation
proceeding [would] alter significantly the nature of the
proceeding," id., at 787, because the hearing would
inevitably become more adversary. We noted that
probationers would not always need counsel because in
most hearings the essential facts are undisputed. In lieu
of a per se rule we held that the necessity of providing
counsel should be determined on a case-by-case basis. In
particular, we stressed that factors governing the
decision to provide counsel include (i) the existence of
factual disputes or issues which are "complex or
otherwise difficult to develop or present," and (ii)
"whether the probationer appears to be capable of
speaking effectively for himself." Id., at 790, 791.
Consideration of these factors, and particularly the
capability of the inmate, persuades me that the Court is
correct that independent assistance must be provided to
an inmate before he may be transferred involuntarily to
a mental hospital. The essence of the issue in an
involuntary commitment proceeding will be the mental
health of the inmate. The resolution of factual disputes
will be less important than the ability to understand and
analyze expert psychiatric testimony that is often
expressed in language relatively incomprehensible to
laymen. It is unlikely that an inmate threatened with
involuntary transfer to mental hospitals will possess the
competence or training to protect adequately his own
interest in these state-initiated proceedings. And the
circumstances of being imprisoned without normal
access to others who may assist him places an additional
handicap upon an inmate's ability to represent himself. I
therefore agree 
[445 U.S. 499]
 that due process requires
the provision of assistance to an inmate threatened with
involuntary transfer to a mental hospital.
II
I do not believe, however, that an inmate must always
be supplied with a licensed attorney. "[D]ue Process is
flexible and calls for such procedural protections as the
particular situation demands." Morrissey v. Brewer, 408
U.S. 471, 481 (1972). See Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S.
319, 334-335 (1976). Our decisions defining the
necessary qualifications for an impartial decisionmaker
demonstrate that the requirements of due process turn
on the nature of the determination which must be made.
"Due Process has never been thought to require that the
neutral and detached trier of fact be law trained or a
judicial or administrative officer." Parham v. J. R., 442
U.S. 584, 607 (1979). In that case, we held that due
process is satisfied when a staff physician determines
whether a child may be voluntarily committed to a state
mental institution by his parents. That holding was
based upon recognition that the issues of civil
commitment "are essentially medical in nature," and that
"`neither judges nor administrative hearing officers are
better qualified than psychiatrists to render psychiatric
judgments.'" Id., at 607, 609, quoting In re Roger S., 19
Cal.3d 921, 942, 569 P.2d 1286, 1299 (1977) (Clark, J.,
dissenting). See also Morrissey v. Brewer, supra, at 489;
Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U.S. 254, 271 (1970).
In my view, the principle that due process does not
always require a law-trained decisionmaker supports the
ancillary conclusion that due process may be satisfied by
the provision of a qualified and independent adviser
who is not a lawyer. As in Parham v. J. R., the issue here
is essentially medical. Under state law, a prisoner may be
transferred only if he "suffers from a mental disease or
defect" and "cannot be given proper treatment" in the
prison complex. Neb. Rev. 
[445 U.S. 500]
 Stat. 
ยง
 83-180
(1) (1976). The opinion of the Court allows a nonlawyer
to act as the impartial decisionmaker in the transfer
proceeding. Ante, at 496.
2
The essence of procedural due process is a fair hearing. I
do not think that the fairness of an informal hearing
designed to determine a medical issue requires
participation by lawyers. Due process merely requires
that the State provide an inmate with qualified and
independent assistance. Such assistance may be provided
by a licensed psychiatrist or other mental health
professional. Indeed, in view of the nature of the issue
involved in the transfer hearing, a person possessing
such professional qualifications normally would be
preferred. As the Court notes, "[t]he question whether
an individual is mentally ill and cannot be treated in
prison `turns on the meaning of the facts which must be
interpreted by expert psychiatrists and psychologists.'"
Ante, at 495, quoting Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S. 418,
429 (1979). I would not exclude, however, the possibility
that the required assistance may be rendered by
competent laymen in some cases. The essential
requirements are that the person provided by the State
be competent and independent, and that he be free to
act solely in the inmate's best interest.
In sum, although the State is free to appoint a licensed
attorney to represent an inmate, it is not constitutionally
required to do so. Due process will be satisfied so long as
an inmate facing involuntary transfer to a mental
hospital is provided qualified and independent
assistance.