The question in this case is whether the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment entitles a prisoner
convicted and incarcerated in the State of Nebraska to
certain procedural 
[445 U.S. 483]
 protections, including
notice, an adversary hearing, and provision of counsel,
before he is transferred involuntarily to a state mental
hospital for treatment of a mental disease or defect.
I
Nebraska Rev. Stat. 
§
 83-176 (2) (1976) authorizes the
Director of Correctional Services to designate any
available, suitable, and appropriate residence facility or
institution as a place of confinement for any state
prisoner and to transfer a prisoner from one place of
confinement to another. Section 83-180 (1), however,
provides that when a designated physician or
psychologist finds that a prisoner "suffers from a mental
disease or defect" and "cannot be given proper treatment
in that facility," the director may transfer him for
examination, study, and treatment to another institution
within or without the Department of Correctional
Services.
1 
 Any prisoner so transferred to a mental
hospital is to be returned to the Department if, prior to
the expiration of his sentence, treatment is no longer
necessary. Upon expiration of sentence, 
[445 U.S. 484]
 if
the State desires to retain the prisoner in a mental
hospital, civil commitment proceedings must be
promptly commenced. 
§
 83-180 (3).
2
On May 31, 1974, Jones was convicted of robbery and
sentenced to a term of three to nine years in state
prison. He was transferred to the penitentiary hospital
in January 1975. Two days later he was placed in solitary
confinement, where he set his mattress on fire, burning
himself severely. He was treated in the burn unit of a
private hospital. Upon his release and based on findings
required by 
§
 83-180 that he was suffering from a
mental illness or defect and could not receive proper
treatment in the penal complex, he was transferred to
the security unit of the Lincoln Regional Center, a state
mental hospital under the jurisdiction of the
Department of Public Institutions.
Jones then intervened in this case, which was brought
by other prisoners against the appropriate state officials
(the State) challenging on procedural due process
grounds the adequacy of the procedures by which the
Nebraska statutes permit transfers from the prison
complex to a mental hospital.
3 
 On August 17, 1976, a
three-judge District Court, convened 
[445 U.S. 485]
pursuant to 28 U. S. C. 
§
 2281 (1970 ed.),
4 
 denied the
State's motion for summary judgment and trial ensued.
On September 12, 1977, the District Court declared 
§
83-180 unconstitutional as applied to Jones, holding that
transferring Jones to a mental hospital without adequate
notice and opportunity for a hearing deprived him of
liberty without due process of law contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment and that such transfers must be
accompanied by adequate notice, an adversary hearing
before an independent decisionmaker, a written
statement by the factfinder of the evidence relied on and
the reasons for the decision, and the availability of
appointed counsel for indigent prisoners. Miller v.
Vitek, 437 F.Supp. 569 (Neb. 1977). Counsel was
requested to suggest appropriate relief.
In response to this request, Jones revealed that on May
27, 1977, prior to the District Court's decision, he had
been transferred from Lincoln Regional Center to the
psychiatric ward of the penal complex but prayed for an
injunction against further transfer to Lincoln Regional
Center. The State conceded that an injunction should
enter if the District Court was firm in its belief that the
section was unconstitutional. The District Court then
entered its judgment declaring 
§
 83-180
unconstitutional as applied to Jones and permanently
enjoining the State from transferring Jones to Lincoln
Regional Center without following the procedures
prescribed in its judgment.
We noted probable jurisdiction 434 U.S. 1060 (1978).
Meanwhile, Jones had been paroled, but only on
condition that he accept psychiatric treatment at a
Veterans' Administration Hospital. We vacated the
judgment of the District Court and remanded the case to
that court for consideration 
[445 U.S. 486]
 of the
question of mootness. Vitek v. Jones, 436 U.S. 407
(1978). Both the State and Jones at this juncture insisted
that the case was not moot. The State represented that
because "Jones' history of mental illness indicates a
serious threat to his own safety, as well as to that of
others . . . there is a very real expectation" that he would
again be transferred if the injunction was removed. App.
to Juris. Statement 24. Jones insisted that he was
receiving treatment for mental illness against his will
and that he was continuing to suffer from the
stigmatizing consequences of the previous
determination that he was mentally ill. On these
representations, the District Court found that the case
was not moot because Jones "is subject to and is in fact
under threat of being transferred to the state mental
hospital under 
§
 83-180." Ibid. The District Court
reinstated its original judgment. We postponed
consideration of jurisdiction to a hearing on the merits.
441 U.S. 922 (1979). Meanwhile, Jones had violated his
parole, his parole had been revoked, and he had been
reincarcerated in the penal complex.
II
We agree with the parties in this case that a live
controversy exists and that the case is not moot. Jones
was declared to be mentally ill pursuant to 
§
 83-180 and
was transferred to a mental hospital and treated. He was
later paroled but only on condition that he accept
mental treatment. He violated that parole and has been
returned to the penal complex. On our remand to
consider mootness, the District Court, relying on Jones'
history of mental illness and the State's representation
that he represented a serious threat to his own safety as
well as to that of others, found that Jones "is in fact
under threat of being transferred to the state mental
hospital under 
§
 83-180." We see no reason to disagree
with the District Court's assessment at that time, and the
reality of the controversy between Jones and the State
has not been lessened by the cancellation of his parole
and his return to the state prison, 
[445 U.S. 487]
 where
he is protected from further transfer by the outstanding
judgment and injunction of the District Court. The
State, believing that the case is not moot, wants the
injunction removed by the reversal of the District
Court's judgment. Jones, on the other hand, insists that
the judgment of the District Court be sustained and the
protection against transfer to a mental hospital, except
in accordance with the specified procedures, be retained.
Against this background, it is not "absolutely clear,"
absent the injunction, "that the allegedly wrongful
behavior could not reasonably be expected to recur."
United States v. Phosphate Export Assn., 393 U.S. 199,
203 (1968); County of Los Angeles v. Davis, 440 U.S.
625, 631 (1979); United States v. W. T. Grant Co., 345
U.S. 629, 633 (1953).
5 
 Furthermore, as the matter now
stands, the 
§
 83-180 determination that Jones suffered
from mental illness has been declared infirm by the
District Court. Vacating the District Court's judgment
as moot would not only vacate the injunction against
transfer but also the declaration that the procedures
employed by the State afforded an inadequate basis for
declaring Jones to be mentally ill. In the posture of the
case, it is not moot.
III
On the merits, the threshold question in this case is
whether the involuntary transfer of a Nebraska state
prisoner to a mental hospital implicates a liberty interest
that is protected by the Due Process Clause. The District
Court held that it did and offered two related reasons for
its conclusion. The District Court first identified a
liberty interest rooted in 
[445 U.S. 488]
§
 83-180 (1),
under which a prisoner could reasonably expect that he
would not be transferred to a mental hospital without a
finding that he was suffering from a mental illness for
which he could not secure adequate treatment in the
correctional facility. Second, the District Court was
convinced that characterizing Jones as a mentally ill
patient and transferring him to the Lincoln Regional
Center had "some stigmatizing" consequences which,
together with the mandatory behavior modification
treatment to which Jones would be subject at the
Lincoln Center, constituted a major change in the
conditions of confinement amounting to a "grievous
loss" that should not be imposed without the
opportunity for notice and an adequate hearing. We
agree with the District Court in both respects.
A
We have repeatedly held that state statutes may create
liberty interests that are entitled to the procedural
protections of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. There is no "constitutional or inherent
right" to parole, Greenholtz v. Nebraska Penal Inmates,
442 U.S. 1, 7 (1979), but once a State grants a prisoner
the conditional liberty properly dependent on the
observance of special parole restrictions, due process
protections attach to the decision to revoke parole.
Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U.S. 471 (1972). The same is
true of the revocation of probation. Gagnon v. Scarpelli,
411 U.S. 778 (1973). In Wolff v. McDonnell, 418 U.S.
539 (1974), we held that a state-created right to good-
time credits, which could be forfeited only for serious
misbehavior, constituted a liberty interest protected by
the Due Process Clause. We also noted that the same
reasoning could justify extension of due process
protections to a decision to impose "solitary"
confinement because "[it] represents a major change in
the conditions of confinement and is normally imposed
only when it is claimed and proved that there has been a
major act of misconduct." Id., at 571-572, n. 19. Once a
State has 
[445 U.S. 489]
 granted prisoners a liberty
interest, we held that due process protections are
necessary "to insure that the state-created right is not
arbitrarily abrogated." Id., at 557.
In Meachum v. Fano, 427 U.S. 215 (1976), and
Montanye v. Haymes, 427 U.S. 236 (1976), we held that
the transfer of a prisoner from one prison to another
does not infringe a protected liberty interest. But in
those cases transfers were discretionary with the prison
authorities, and in neither case did the prisoner possess
any right or justifiable expectation that he would not be
transferred except for misbehavior or upon the
occurrence of other specified events. Hence, "the
predicate for invoking the protection of the Fourteenth
Amendment as construed and applied in Wolff v.
McDonnell [was] totally nonexistent." Meachum v.
Fano, supra, at 226-227.
Following Meachum v. Fano and Montanye v. Haymes,
we continued to recognize that state statutes may grant
prisoners liberty interests that invoke due process
protections when prisoners are transferred to solitary
confinement for disciplinary or administrative reasons.
Enomoto v. Wright, 434 U.S. 1052 (1978), summarily
aff'g 462 F.Supp. 397 (ND Cal. 1976). Similarly, in
Greenholtz v. Nebraska Penal Inmates, supra, we held
that state law granted petitioners a sufficient expectancy
of parole to entitle them to some measure of
constitutional protection with respect to parole
decisions.
We think the District Court properly understood and
applied these decisions. Section 83-180 (1) provides that
if a designated physician finds that a prisoner "suffers
from a mental disease or defect" that "cannot be given
proper treatment" in prison, the Director of
Correctional Services may transfer a prisoner to a
mental hospital. The District Court also found that in
practice prisoners are transferred to a mental hospital
only if it is determined that they suffer from a mental
disease or defect that cannot adequately be treated
within the penal complex. This "objective expectation,
firmly fixed in state law and official Penal Complex
practice," that 
[445 U.S. 490]
 a prisoner would not be
transferred unless he suffered from a mental disease or
defect that could not be adequately treated in the prison,
gave Jones a liberty interest that entitled him to the
benefits of appropriate procedures in connection with
determining the conditions that warranted his transfer
to a mental hospital. Under our cases, this conclusion of
the District Court is unexceptionable.
Appellants maintain that any state-created liberty
interest that Jones had was completely satisfied once a
physician or psychologist designated by the director
made the findings required by 
§
 83-180 (1) and that
Jones was not entitled to any procedural protections.
6
But if the State grants a prisoner 
[445 U.S. 491]
 a right or
expectation that adverse action will not be taken against
him except upon the occurrence of specified behavior,
"the determination of whether such behavior has
occurred becomes critical, and the minimum
requirements of procedural due process appropriate for
the circumstances must be observed." Wolff v.
McDonnell, 418 U. S., at 558. These minimum
requirements being a matter of federal law, they are not
diminished by the fact that the State may have specified
its own procedures that it may deem adequate for
determining the preconditions to adverse official action.
In Morrissey, Gagnon, and Wolff, the States had
adopted their own procedures for determining whether
conditions warranting revocation of parole, probation,
or good-time credits had occurred; yet we held that
those procedures were constitutionally inadequate. In
like manner, Nebraska's reliance on the opinion of a
designated physician or psychologist for determining
whether the conditions warranting a transfer exist
neither removes the prisoner's interest from due process
protection nor answers the question of what process is
due under the Constitution.
B
The District Court was also correct in holding that
independently of 
§
 83-180(1), the transfer of a prisoner
from a prison to a mental hospital must be accompanied
by appropriate procedural protections. The issue is
whether after a conviction for robbery, Jones retained a
residuum of liberty that would be infringed by a transfer
to a mental hospital without complying with minimum
requirements of due process.
We have recognized that for the ordinary citizen,
commitment to a mental hospital produces "a massive
curtailment of liberty," Humphrey v. Cady, 405 U.S. 504,
509 (1972), and in 
[445 U.S. 492]
 consequence "requires
due process protection." Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S.
418, 425 (1979); O'Connor v. Donaldson, 422 U.S. 563,
580 (1975) (BURGER, C. J., concurring). The loss of
liberty produced by an involuntary commitment is more
than a loss of freedom from confinement. It is
indisputable that commitment to a mental hospital "can
engender adverse social consequences to the individual"
and that "[w]hether we label this phenomena `stigma' or
choose to call it something else . . . we recognize that it
can occur and that it can have a very significant impact
on the individual." Addington v. Texas, supra, at 425-
426. See also Parham v. J. R., 442 U.S. 584, 600 (1979).
Also, "[a]mong the historic liberties" protected by the
Due Process Clause is the "right to be free from, and to
obtain judicial relief for, unjustified intrusions on
personal security." Ingraham v. Wright, 430 U.S. 651,
673 (1977). Compelled treatment in the form of
mandatory behavior modification programs, to which
the District Court found Jones was exposed in this case,
was a proper factor to be weighed by the District Court.
Cf. Addington v. Texas, supra, at 427.
The District Court, in its findings, was sensitive to these
concerns:
"[T]he fact of greater limitations on freedom of action at the
Lincoln Regional Center, the fact that a transfer to the Lincoln
Regional Center has some stigmatizing consequences, and the fact
that additional mandatory behavior modification systems are used
at the Lincoln Regional Center combine to make the transfer a
`major change in the conditions of confinement' amounting to a
`grievous loss' to the inmate." Miller v. Vitek, 437 F. Supp., at 573.
Were an ordinary citizen to be subjected involuntarily
to these consequences, it is undeniable that protected
liberty interests would be unconstitutionally infringed
absent compliance with the procedures required by the
Due Process Clause. 
[445 U.S. 493]
 We conclude that a
convicted felon also is entitled to the benefit of
procedures appropriate in the circumstances before he is
found to have a mental disease and transferred to a
mental hospital.
Undoubtedly, a valid criminal conviction and prison
sentence extinguish a defendant's right to freedom from
confinement. Greenholtz v. Nebraska Penal Inmates,
442 U. S., at 7. Such a conviction and sentence
sufficiently extinguish a defendant's liberty "to empower
the State to confine him in any of its prisons." Meachum
v. Fano, 427 U. S., at 224 (emphasis deleted). It is also
true that changes in the conditions of confinement
having a substantial adverse impact on the prisoner are
not alone sufficient to invoke the protections of the Due
Process Clause "[a]s long as the conditions or degree of
confinement to which the prisoner is subjected is within
the sentence imposed upon him." Montanye v. Haymes,
427 U. S., at 242.
Appellants maintain that the transfer of a prisoner to a
mental hospital is within the range of confinement
justified by imposition of a prison sentence, at least after
certification by a qualified person that a prisoner suffers
from a mental disease or defect. We cannot agree. None
of our decisions holds that conviction for a crime
entitles a State not only to confine the convicted person
but also to determine that he has a mental illness and to
subject him involuntarily to institutional care in a
mental hospital. Such consequences visited on the
prisoner are qualitatively different from the punishment
characteristically suffered by a person convicted of
crime. Our cases recognize as much and reflect an
understanding that involuntary commitment to a
mental hospital is not within the range of conditions of
confinement to which a prison sentence subjects an
individual. Baxstrom v. Herold, 383 U.S. 107 (1966);
Specht v. Patterson, 386 U.S. 605 (1967); Humphrey v.
Cady, 405 U.S. 504 (1972); Jackson v. Indiana, 406 U.S.
715, 724-725 (1972). A criminal conviction and sentence
of imprisonment extinguish an individual's 
[445 U.S.
494]
 right to freedom from confinement for the term of
his sentence, but they do not authorize the State to
classify him as mentally ill and to subject him to
involuntary psychiatric treatment without affording him
additional due process protections.
In light of the findings made by the District Court,
Jones' involuntary transfer to the Lincoln Regional
Center pursuant to 
§
 83-180, for the purpose of
psychiatric treatment, implicated a liberty interest
protected by the Due Process Clause. Many of the
restrictions on the prisoner's freedom of action at the
Lincoln Regional Center by themselves might not
constitute the deprivation of a liberty interest retained
by a prisoner, see Wolff v. McDonnell, 418 U. S., at 572,
n. 19; cf. Baxter v. Palmigiano, 425 U.S. 308, 323 (1976).
But here, the stigmatizing consequences of a transfer to
a mental hospital for involuntary psychiatric treatment,
coupled with the subjection of the prisoner to
mandatory behavior modification as a treatment for
mental illness, constitute the kind of deprivations of
liberty that requires procedural protections.
IV
The District Court held that to afford sufficient
protection to the liberty interest it had identified, the
State was required to observe the following minimum
procedures before transferring a prisoner to a mental
hospital:
"A. Written notice to the prisoner that a transfer to a mental
hospital is being considered;
"B. A hearing, sufficiently after the notice to permit the prisoner to
prepare, at which disclosure to the prisoner is made of the evidence
being relied upon for the transfer and at which an opportunity to be
heard in person and to present documentary evidence is given;
"C. An opportunity at the hearing to present testimony of witnesses
by the defense and to confront and cross-examine witnesses called
by the state, except 
[445 U.S. 495]
 upon a finding, not arbitrarily
made, of good cause for not permitting such presentation,
confrontation, or cross-examination;
"D. An independent decisionmaker;
"E. A written statement by the factfinder as to the evidence relied
on and the reasons for transferring the inmate;
"F. Availability of legal counsel, furnished by the state, if the inmate
is financially unable to furnish his own; and
"G. Effective and timely notice of all the foregoing rights." 437 F.
Supp., at 575.
A
We think the District Court properly identified and
weighed the relevant factors in arriving at its judgment.
Concededly the interest of the State in segregating and
treating mentally ill patients is strong. The interest of
the prisoner in not being arbitrarily classified as
mentally ill and subjected to unwelcome treatment is
also powerful, however; and as the District Court found,
the risk of error in making the determinations required
by 
§
 83-180 is substantial enough to warrant
appropriate procedural safeguards against error.
We recognize that the inquiry involved in determining
whether or not to transfer an inmate to a mental
hospital for treatment involves a question that is
essentially medical. The question whether an individual
is mentally ill and cannot be treated in prison "turns on
the meaning of the facts which must be interpreted by
expert psychiatrists and psychologists." Addington v.
Texas, 441 U. S., at 429. The medical nature of the
inquiry, however, does not justify dispensing with due
process requirements. It is precisely "[t]he subtleties and
nuances of psychiatric diagnoses" that justify the
requirement of adversary hearings. Id., at 430.
Because prisoners facing involuntary transfer to a
mental hospital are threatened with immediate
deprivation of liberty 
[445 U.S. 496]
 interests they are
currently enjoying and because of the inherent risk of a
mistaken transfer, the District Court properly
determined that procedures similar to those required by
the Court in Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U.S. 471 (1972),
were appropriate in the circumstances present here.
The notice requirement imposed by the District Court
no more than recognizes that notice is essential to afford
the prisoner an opportunity to challenge the
contemplated action and to understand the nature of
what is happening to him. Wolff v. McDonnell, supra,
at 564. Furthermore, in view of the nature of the
determinations that must accompany the transfer to a
mental hospital, we think each of the elements of the
hearing specified by the District Court was appropriate.
The interests of the State in avoiding disruption was
recognized by limiting in appropriate circumstances the
prisoner's right to call witnesses, to confront and cross
examine. The District Court also avoided unnecessary
intrusion into either medical or correctional judgments
by providing that the independent decisionmaker
conducting the transfer hearing need not come from
outside the prison or hospital administration. 437 F.
Supp., at 574.
B
*
The District Court did go beyond the requirements
imposed by prior cases by holding that counsel must be
made available to inmates facing transfer hearings if
they are financially unable to furnish their own. We
have not required the automatic appointment of counsel
for indigent prisoners facing other deprivations of
liberty, Gagnon v. Scarpelli, 411 U. S., at 790; Wolff v.
McDonnell, supra, at 569-570; but we have recognized
that prisoners who are illiterate and uneducated have a
greater need for assistance in exercising their rights.
Gagnon v. Scarpelli, supra, at 786-787; Wolff v.
McDonnell, supra, at 570. A prisoner thought to be
suffering from a 
[445 U.S. 497]
 mental disease or defect
requiring involuntary treatment probably has an even
greater need for legal assistance, for such a prisoner is
more likely to be unable to understand or exercise his
rights. In these circumstances, it is appropriate that
counsel be provided to indigent prisoners whom the
State seeks to treat as mentally ill.
V
Because MR. JUSTICE POWELL, while believing that
Jones was entitled to competent help at the hearing,
would not require the State to furnish a licensed
attorney to aid him, the judgment below is affirmed as
modified to conform with the separate opinion filed by
MR. JUSTICE POWELL.
So ordered.