The Court today denies an indigent mother the
representation of counsel in a judicial proceeding
initiated by the State of North Carolina to terminate her
parental rights with respect to her youngest child. The
Court most appropriately recognizes that the mother's
interest is a "commanding one," ante, at 27, and it finds
no countervailing state interest of even remotely
comparable significance, see ante, at 27-28, 31.
Nonetheless, the Court avoids what seems to me the
obvious conclusion that due process requires the
presence of counsel for a parent threatened with judicial
termination of parental rights, and, instead, revives an
ad hoc approach thoroughly discredited nearly 20 years
ago in Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U.S. 335 (1963).
Because I believe that the unique importance of a
parent's interest in the care and custody of his or her
child cannot constitutionally be extinguished through
formal judicial proceedings without the benefit of
counsel, I dissent.
I
This Court is not unfamiliar with the problem of
determining under what circumstances legal
representation is mandated by the Constitution. In Betts
v. Brady, 316 U.S. 455 (1942), it reviewed at length both
the tradition behind the Sixth Amendment right to
counsel in criminal trials and the historical practices of
the States in that area. The decision in Betts—that the
Sixth Amendment right to counsel did not apply to the
States and that the due process guarantee of the
Fourteenth Amendment permitted a flexible, case-by-
case determination of the defendant's need for counsel
in state criminal trials—was overruled in Gideon v.
Wainwright, 372 U. S., at 345. The Court in Gideon
rejected the Betts 
[452 U.S. 36]
 reasoning to the effect
that counsel for indigent criminal defendants was "`not
a fundamental right, essential to a fair trial.'" 372 U. S.,
at 340 (quoting Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S., at 471).
Finding the right well founded in its precedents, the
Court further concluded that "reason and reflection
require us to recognize that in our adversary system of
criminal justice, any person haled into court, who is too
poor to hire a lawyer, cannot be assured a fair trial
unless counsel is provided for him." 372 U. S., at 344.
Similarly, in Argersinger v. Hamlin, 407 U.S. 25 (1972),
assistance of counsel was found to be a requisite under
the Sixth Amendment, as incorporated into the
Fourteenth, even for a misdemeanor offense punishable
by imprisonment for less than six months.
1
Outside the criminal context, however, the Court has
relied on the flexible nature of the due process guarantee
whenever it has decided that counsel is not
constitutionally required. The special purposes of
probation revocation determinations, and the informal
nature of those administrative proceedings, including
the absence of counsel for the State, led the Court to
conclude that due process does not require counsel for
probationers. Gagnon v. Scarpelli, 411 U.S. 778, 785-
789 (1973). In the case of school disciplinary
proceedings, which are brief, informal, and intended in
part to be educative, the Court also found no
requirement for legal counsel. Goss v. Lopez, 419 U.S.
565, 583 (1975). Most recently, the Court declined to
intrude the presence of counsel for a minor facing
voluntary civil commitment by his parent, because of
the parent's substantial role in that decision and because
of the decision's essentially medical and informal nature.
Parham v. J. R., 442 U.S. 584, 604-609 (1979).
In each of these instances, the Court has recognized that
[452 U.S. 37]
 what process is due varies in relation to the
interests at stake and the nature of the governmental
proceedings. Where the individual's liberty interest is of
diminished or less than fundamental stature, or where
the prescribed procedure involves informal
decisionmaking without the trappings of an adversarial
trial-type proceeding, counsel has not been a requisite of
due process. Implicit in this analysis is the fact that the
contrary conclusion sometimes may be warranted.
Where an individual's liberty interest assumes
sufficiently weighty constitutional significance, and the
State by a formal and adversarial proceeding seeks to
curtail that interest, the right to counsel may be
necessary to ensure fundamental fairness. See In re
Gault, 387 U.S. 1 (1967). To say this is simply to
acknowledge that due process allows for the adoption of
different rules to address different situations or contexts.
It is not disputed that state intervention to terminate the
relationship between petitioner and her child must be
accomplished by procedures meeting the requisites of
the Due Process Clause. Nor is there any doubt here
about the kind of procedure North Carolina has
prescribed. North Carolina law required notice and a
trial-type hearing before the State on its own initiative
may sever the bonds of parenthood. The decisionmaker
is a judge, the rules of evidence are in force, and the
State is represented by counsel. The question, then, is
whether proceedings in this mold, that relate to a subject
so vital, can comport with fundamental fairness when
the defendant parent remains unrepresented by counsel.
As the Court today properly acknowledges, our
consideration of the process due in this context, as in
others, must rely on a balancing of the competing
private and public interests, an approach succinctly
described in Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335
(1976).
2 
 As does the majority, I 
[452 U.S. 38]
 evaluate
the "three distinct factors" specified in Eldridge: the
private interest affected; the risk of error under the
procedure employed by the State; and the countervailing
governmental interest in support of the challenged
procedure.
A
At stake here is "the interest of a parent in the
companionship, care, custody, and management of his
or her children." Stanley v. Illinois, 405 U.S. 645, 651
(1972). This interest occupies a unique place in our legal
culture, given the centrality of family life as the focus for
personal meaning and responsibility. "[F]ar more
precious . . . than property rights," May v. Anderson,
345 U.S. 528, 533 (1953), parental rights have been
deemed to be among those "essential to the orderly
pursuit of happiness by free men," Meyer v. Nebraska,
262 U.S. 390, 399 (1923), and to be more significant and
priceless than "`liberties which derive merely from
shifting economic arrangements.'" Stanley v. Illinois,
405 U. S., at 651, quoting Kovacs v. Cooper, 336 U.S. 77,
95 (1949) (Frankfurter, J., concurring). Accordingly,
although the Constitution is verbally silent on the
specific subject of families, freedom of personal choice
in matters of family life long has been viewed as a
fundamental liberty interest worthy of protection under
the Fourteenth Amendment. Smith v. Organization of
Foster Families, 431 U.S. 816, 845 (1977); Moore v. East
Cleveland, 431 U.S. 494, 499 (1977) (plurality opinion);
Prince v. Massachusetts, 321 U.S. 158, 166 (1944);
Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U.S. 510, 534-535
(1925); Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S., at 399. Within the
general ambit of family integrity, the Court has accorded
a high degree of constitutional respect to a natural
parent's interest both in controlling the details of the
child's upbringing, 
[452 U.S. 39]
 Wisconsin v. Yoder,
406 U.S. 205, 232-234 (1972); Pierce v. Society of
Sisters, 268 U. S., at 534-535, and in retaining the
custody and companionship of the child, Smith v.
Organization of Foster Families, 431 U. S., at 842-847;
Stanley v. Illinois, 405 U. S., at 651.
In this case, the State's aim is not simply to influence the
parent-child relationship but to extinguish it. A
termination of parental rights is both total and
irrevocable.
3 
 Unlike other custody proceedings, it leaves
the parent with no right to visit or communicate with
the child, to participate in, or even to know about, any
important decision affecting the child's religious,
educational, emotional, or physical development. It is
hardly surprising that this forced dissolution of the
parent-child relationship has been recognized as a
punitive sanction by courts,
4 
 Congress,
5 
 and
commentators.
6 
[452 U.S. 40]
 The Court candidly notes,
as it must, ante, at 27, that termination of parental rights
by the State is a "unique kind of deprivation."
The magnitude of this deprivation is of critical
significance in the due process calculus, for the process
to which an individual is entitled is in part determined
"by the extent to which he may be `condemned to suffer
grievous loss.'" Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U.S. 254, 263
(1970), quoting Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee
v. McGrath, 341 U.S. 123, 168 (1951) (Frankfurter, J.,
concurring). See Little v. Streater, ante, at 12; Morrissey
v. Brewer, 408 U.S. 471, 481 (1972). Surely there can be
few losses more grievous than the abrogation of
parental rights. Yet the Court today asserts that this
deprivation somehow is less serious than threatened
losses deemed to require appointed counsel, because in
this instance the parent's own "personal liberty" is not at
stake.
I do not believe that our cases support the
"presumption" asserted, ante, at 26-27, that physical
confinement is the only loss of liberty grievous enough
to trigger a right to appointed counsel under the Due
Process Clause. Indeed, incarceration has been found to
be neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for
requiring counsel on behalf of an indigent defendant.
The prospect of canceled parole or probation, with its
consequent deprivation of personal liberty, has not led
the Court to require counsel for a prisoner facing a
revocation proceeding. Gagnon v. Scarpelli, 411 U. S., at
785-789; Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U. S., at 489. On the
other hand, the fact that no new incarceration was
threatened by a transfer from prison to a mental hospital
did not preclude the Court's recognition of adverse
changes in the conditions of 
[452 U.S. 41]
 confinement
and of the stigma that presumably is associated with
being labeled mentally ill. Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480,
492, 494 (1980). For four Members of the Court, these
"other deprivations of liberty," coupled with the possibly
diminished mental capacity of the prisoner, compelled
the provision of counsel for any indigent prisoner facing
a transfer hearing. Id., at 496-497 (opinion of WHITE,
J., joined by BRENNAN, MARSHALL, and STEVENS,
JJ.).
7 
 See also In re Gault, 387 U. S., at 24-25.
Moreover, the Court's recourse to a "pre-eminent
generalization," ante, at 25, misrepresents the
importance of our flexible approach to due process.
That approach consistently has emphasized
attentiveness to the particular context. Once an
individual interest is deemed sufficiently substantial or
fundamental, determining the constitutional necessity of
a requested procedural protection requires that we
examine the nature of the proceeding—both the risk of
error if the protection is not provided and the burdens
created by its imposition.
8 
 Compare Goldberg v. Kelly,
397 U.S. 254 (1970), 
[452 U.S. 42]
 with Mathews v.
Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319 (1976), and Fuentes v. Shevin,
407 U.S. 67 (1972), with Mitchell v. W. T. Grant Co.,
416 U.S. 600 (1974).
Rather than opting for the insensitive presumption that
incarceration is the only loss of liberty sufficiently
onerous to justify a right to appointed counsel, I would
abide by the Court's enduring commitment to examine
the relationships among the interests on both sides, and
the appropriateness of counsel in the specific type of
proceeding. The fundamental significance of the liberty
interests at stake in a parental termination proceeding is
undeniable, and I would find this first portion of the due
process balance weighing heavily in favor of refined
procedural protections. The second Eldridge factor,
namely, the risk of error in the procedure provided by
the State, must then be reviewed with some care.
B
The method chosen by North Carolina to extinguish
parental rights resembles in many respects a criminal
prosecution. Unlike the probation revocation procedure
reviewed in Gagnon v. Scarpelli, on which the Court so
heavily relies, the termination procedure is distinctly
formal and adversarial. The State initiates the
proceeding by filing a petition in district court, N. C.
Gen. Stat. 
§§
 7A-289.23 and 7A-289.25 (Supp. 1979),
9
and serving a summons on the parent, 
§
 7A-289.27 (1).
A state judge presides over the adjudicatory hearing that
follows, and the hearing is conducted pursuant to the
formal rules of evidence and procedure. N. C. Rule Civ.
Proc. 1, N. C. Gen. Stat. 
§
 1A-1 (Supp. 1979). In general,
[452 U.S. 43]
 hearsay is inadmissible and records must be
authenticated. See, e. g., 
§
 1A-1, Rules 1, 43, 44, 46.
In addition, the proceeding has an obvious accusatory
and punitive focus. In moving to terminate a parent's
rights, the State has concluded that it no longer will try
to preserve the family unit, but instead will marshal an
array of public resources to establish that the parent-
child separation must be made permanent.
10 
 The State
has legal representation through the county attorney.
This lawyer has access to public records concerning the
family and to professional social workers who are
empowered to investigate the family situation and to
testify against the parent. The State's legal
representative may also call upon experts in family
relations, psychology, and medicine to bolster the State's
case. And, of course, the State's counsel himself is an
expert in the legal standards and techniques employed at
the termination proceeding, including the methods of
cross-examination.
[452 U.S. 44]
 In each of these respects, the procedure
devised by the State vastly differs from the informal and
rehabilitative probation revocation decision in Scarpelli,
the brief, educative school disciplinary procedure in
Goss, and the essentially medical decision in Parham.
Indeed, the State here has prescribed virtually all the
attributes of a formal trial as befits the severity of the
loss at stake in the termination decision— every
attribute, that is, except counsel for the defendant
parent. The provision of counsel for the parent would
not alter the character of the proceeding, which is
already adversarial, formal, and quintessentially legal. It,
however, would diminish the prospect of an erroneous
termination, a prospect that is inherently substantial,
given the gross disparity in power and resources
between the State and the uncounseled indigent
parent.
11
The prospect of error is enhanced in light of the legal
standard against which the defendant parent is judged.
As demonstrated here, that standard commonly adds
another dimension to the complexity of the termination
proceeding. Rather than focusing on the facts of isolated
acts or omissions, the State's charges typically address
the nature and quality of complicated ongoing
relationships among parent, child, other relatives, and
even unrelated parties. In the case at bar, the State's
petition accused petitioner of two of the several grounds
authorizing termination of parental rights under North
Carolina law:
"That [petitioner] has without cause, failed to establish or maintain
concern or responsibility as to the child's welfare.
.....
"That [petitioner] has willfully left the child in foster care for more
than two consecutive years without showing 
[452 U.S. 45]
 that
substantial progress has been made in correcting the conditions
which led to the removal of the child [for neglect], or without
showing a positive response to the diligent efforts of the
Department of Social Services to strengthen her relationship to the
child, or to make and follow through with constructive planning
for the future of the child." (Emphasis supplied.) Juvenile Petition
¶¶
 6, 7, App. 3.
12
The legal issues posed by the State's petition are neither
simple nor easily defined. The standard is imprecise and
open to the subjective values of the judge.
13 
 A parent
seeking to prevail against the State must be prepared to
adduce evidence about his or her personal abilities and
lack of fault, as well as proof of progress and foresight as
a parent that the State would deem adequate and
improved over the situation underlying a previous
adverse judgment of child neglect. The parent cannot
possibly succeed without being able to identify material
issues, develop defenses, gather and present 
[452 U.S.
46]
 sufficient supporting nonhearsay evidence, and
conduct cross-examination of adverse witnesses.
The Court, of course, acknowledges, ante, at 30, that
these tasks "may combine to overwhelm an uncounseled
parent." I submit that is a profound understatement.
Faced with a formal accusatory adjudication, with an
adversary— the State—that commands great
investigative and prosecutorial resources, with standards
that involve ill-defined notions of fault and adequate
parenting, and with the inevitable tendency of a court to
apply subjective values or to defer to the State's
"expertise," the defendant parent plainly is outstripped if
he or she is without the assistance of "`the guiding hand
of counsel.'" In re Gault, 387 U. S., at 36, quoting Powell
v. Alabama, 287 U.S. 45, 69 (1932). When the parent is
indigent, lacking in education, and easily intimidated by
figures of authority,
14 
 the imbalance may well become
insuperable.
The risk of error thus is severalfold. The parent who
actually has achieved the improvement or quality of
parenting the State would require may be unable to
establish this fact. The parent who has failed in these
regards may be unable to demonstrate cause, absence of
willfulness, or lack of agency diligence as justification.
And errors of fact or law in the State's case may go
unchallenged and uncorrected.
15 
 Given 
[452 U.S. 47]
 the
weight of the interests at stake, this risk of error
assumes extraordinary proportions. By intimidation,
inarticulateness, or confusion, a parent can lose forever
all contact and involvement with his or her offspring.
C
The final factor to be considered, the interests claimed
for the State, do not tip the scale against providing
appointed counsel in this context. The State hardly is in
a position to assert here that it seeks the informality of a
rehabilitative or educative proceeding into which
counsel for the parent would inject an unwelcome
adversarial edge. As the Assistant Attorney General of
North Carolina declared before this Court, once the
State moves for termination, it "has made a decision that
the child cannot go home and should not go home. It no
longer has an obligation to try and restore that family."
Tr. of Oral Arg. 40.
The State may, and does, properly assert a legitimate
interest in promoting the physical and emotional well-
being of its minor children. But this interest is not
served by terminating the rights of any concerned,
responsible parent. Indeed, because North Carolina is
committed to "protect[ing] all children from the
unnecessary severance of a relationship with biological
or legal parents," 
§
 7A-289.22 (2), "the State spites its
own articulated goals when it needlessly 
[452 U.S. 48]
separates" the parent from the child. Stanley v. Illinois,
405 U. S., at 653.16
The State also has an interest in avoiding the cost and
administrative inconvenience that might accompany a
right to appointed counsel. But, as the Court
acknowledges, the State's fiscal interest "is hardly
significant enough to overcome private interests as
important as those here." Ante, at 28. The State's
financial concern indeed is a limited one, for the right to
appointed counsel may well be restricted to those
termination proceedings that are instituted by the State.
Moreover, no difficult line-drawing problem would
arise with respect to other types of civil proceedings.
The instant due process analysis takes full account of the
fundamental nature of the parental interest, the
permanency of the threatened deprivation, the gross
imbalance between the resources employed by the
prosecuting State and those available to the indigent
parent, and the relatively insubstantial cost of furnishing
counsel. An absence of any one of these factors might
yield a different result.
17 
 But where, as here, the
threatened loss of liberty is severe and absolute, the
State's role is so clearly adversarial and punitive, and the
cost involved is relatively slight, there is no sound basis
for refusing to recognize the right to counsel as a
requisite of due process in a proceeding initiated by the
State to terminate parental rights.
II
A
The Court's analysis is markedly similar to mine; it, too,
analyzes the three factors listed in Mathews v. Eldridge,
and it, too, finds the private interest weighty, the
procedure devised by the State fraught with risks of
error, and the countervailing 
[452 U.S. 49]
governmental interest insubstantial. Yet, rather than
follow this balancing process to its logical conclusion,
the Court abruptly pulls back and announces that a
defendant parent must await a case-by-case
determination of his or her need for counsel. Because
the three factors "will not always be so distributed,"
reasons the Court, the Constitution should not be read
to "requir[e] the appointment of counsel in every
parental termination proceeding." Ante, at 31 (emphasis
added). This conclusion is not only illogical, but it also
marks a sharp departure from the due process analysis
consistently applied heretofore. The flexibility of due
process, the Court has held, requires case-by-case
consideration of different decisionmaking contexts, not
of different litigants within a given context. In analyzing
the nature of the private and governmental interests at
stake, along with the risk of error, the Court in the past
has not limited itself to the particular case at hand.
Instead, after addressing the three factors as generic
elements in the context raised by the particular case, the
Court then has formulated a rule that has general
application to similarly situated cases.
The Court's own precedents make this clear. In
Goldberg v. Kelly, the Court found that the desperate
economic conditions experienced by welfare recipients
as a class distinguished them from other recipients of
governmental benefits. 397 U. S., at 264. In Mathews v.
Eldridge, the Court concluded that the needs of Social
Security disability recipients were not of comparable
urgency, and, moreover, that existing pretermination
procedures, based largely on written medical
assessments, were likely to be more objective and
evenhanded than typical welfare entitlement decisions.
424 U. S., at 339-345. These cases established rules
translating due process in the welfare context as
requiring a pretermination hearing but dispensing with
that requirement in the disability benefit context. A
showing that a particular welfare recipient had access to
additional income, or that a disability recipient's
eligibility turned on testimony rather than 
[452 U.S. 50]
written medical reports, would not result in an
exception from the required procedural norms. The
Court reasoned in Eldridge:
"To be sure, credibility and veracity may be a factor in the ultimate
disability assessment in some cases. But procedural due process
rules are shaped by the risk of error inherent in the truth-finding
process as applied to the generality of cases, not the rare
exceptions." Id., at 344.
There are sound reasons for this. Procedural norms are
devised to ensure that justice may be done in every case,
and to protect litigants against unpredictable and
unchecked adverse governmental action. Through
experience with decisions in varied situations over time,
lessons emerge that reflect a general understanding as to
what is minimally necessary to assure fair play. Such
lessons are best expressed to have general application
which guarantees the predictability and uniformity that
underlie our society's commitment to the rule of law. By
endorsing, instead, a retrospective review of the trial
record of each particular defendant parent, the Court
today undermines the very rationale on which this
concept of general fairness is based.
18
Moreover, the case-by-case approach advanced by the
Court itself entails serious dangers for the interests at
stake and the general administration of justice. The
Court assumes that a review of the record will establish
whether a defendant, proceeding without counsel, has
suffered an unfair 
[452 U.S. 51]
 disadvantage. But in the
ordinary case, this simply is not so. The pleadings and
transcript of an uncounseled termination proceeding at
most will show the obvious blunders and omissions of
the defendant parent. Determining the difference legal
representation would have made becomes possible only
through imagination, investigation, and legal research
focused on the particular case. Even if the reviewing
court can embark on such an enterprise in each case, it
might be hard pressed to discern the significance of
failures to challenge the State's evidence or to develop a
satisfactory defense. Such failures, however, often cut to
the essence of the fairness of the trial, and a court's
inability to compensate for them effectively eviscerates
the presumption of innocence. Because a parent acting
pro se is even more likely to be unaware of controlling
legal standards and practices, and unskilled in garnering
relevant facts, it is difficult, if not impossible, to
conclude that the typical case has been adequately
presented. Cf. Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S., at 476
(dissenting opinion).
19
Assuming that this ad hoc review were adequate to
ensure fairness, it is likely to be both cumbersome and
costly. And because such review involves constitutional
rights implicated by state adjudications, it necessarily
will result in increased federal interference in state
proceedings. The Court's implication to the contrary,
see ante, at 33, is belied by the Court's experience in the
aftermath of Betts v. Brady. The Court was confronted
with innumerable postverdict challenges to the fairness
of particular trials, and expended much 
[452 U.S. 52]
energy in effect evaluating the performance of state
judges.
20 
 This level of intervention in the criminal
processes of the States prompted Justice Frankfurter,
speaking for himself and two others, to complain that
the Court was performing as a "super-legal-aid bureau."
Uveges v. Pennsylvania, 335 U.S. 437, 450 (1948)
(dissenting opinion). I fear that the decision today may
transform the Court into a "super family court."
B
The problem of inadequate representation is painfully
apparent in the present case. Petitioner, Abby Gail
Lassiter, is the mother of five children. The State moved
to remove the fifth child, William, from petitioner's care
on the grounds of parental neglect. Although petitioner
received notice of the removal proceeding, she did not
appear at the hearing and was not represented. In May
1975, the State's District Court adjudicated William to
be neglected under North Carolina law and placed him
in the custody of the Durham County Department of
Social Services. At some point, petitioner evidently
arranged for the other four children to reside with and
be cared for by her mother, Mrs. Lucille Lassiter. They
remain under their grandmother's care at the present
time.
As the Court notes, ante, at 22, petitioner did not visit
William after July 1976. She was unable to do so, for she
was imprisoned as a result of her conviction for second-
degree murder. In December 1977, she was visited in
prison by a Durham County social worker who advised
her that the Department planned to terminate her
parental rights with respect to William. Petitioner
immediately expressed strong 
[452 U.S. 53]
 opposition
to that plan and indicated a desire to place the child with
his grandmother. Hearing Tr. 15. After receiving a
summons, a copy of the State's termination petition, and
notice that a termination hearing would be held in
August 1978, petitioner informed her prison guards
about the legal proceeding. They took no steps to assist
her in obtaining legal representation, id., at 4; App. I to
Reply to Brief in Opposition 4, nor was she informed
that she had a right to counsel.
21 
 Under these
circumstances, it scarcely would be appropriate, or fair,
to find that petitioner had knowingly and intelligently
waived a right to counsel.
At the termination hearing, the State's sole witness was
the county worker who had met petitioner on the one
occasion at the prison. This worker had been assigned to
William's case in August 1977, yet much of her
testimony concerned events prior to that date; she
represented these events as contained in the agency
record. Hearing Tr. 10-13. Petitioner failed to uncover
this weakness in the worker's testimony. That is hardly
surprising, for there is no indication that an agency
record was introduced into evidence or was present in
court, or that petitioner or the grandmother ever had an
opportunity to review any such record. The social
worker also testified about her conversations with
members of the community. In this hearsay testimony,
the witness reported the opinion of others that the
grandmother could not handle the additional
responsibility of caring for the fifth child. Id., at 14-15.
There is no indication that these community members
were unavailable to testify, and the County Attorney did
not justify the admission of the hearsay. Petitioner made
no objection to its admission.
[452 U.S. 54]
 The court gave petitioner an opportunity
to cross-examine the social worker, id., at 19, but she
apparently did not understand that cross-examination
required questioning rather than declarative statements.
At this point, the judge became noticeably impatient
with petitioner.
22 
 Petitioner then 
[452 U.S. 55]
 took the
stand, and testified that she wanted William to live with
his grandmother and his siblings. The judge questioned
her for a brief period, and expressed open disbelief at
one of her answers.
23 
 The final witness was the
grandmother. Both the judge and the County Attorney
questioned her. She denied having expressed
unwillingness to take William into her home, and
vehemently contradicted the social worker's statement
that she had complained to the Department about her
daughter's neglect of the child.
24 
 Petitioner was not told
that she could question her mother, and did not do so.
25
The County Attorney made a closing argument, id., at
58-60, 
[452 U.S. 56]
 and the judge then asked petitioner
if she had any final remarks. She responded: "Yes. I don't
think its right." Id., at 61.
It is perhaps understandable that the District Court
Judge experienced difficulty and exasperation in
conducting this hearing. But both the difficulty and the
exasperation are attributable in large measure, if not
entirely, to the lack of counsel. An experienced attorney
might have translated petitioner's reaction and emotion
into several substantive legal arguments. The State
charged petitioner with failing to arrange a
"constructive plan" for her child's future or to
demonstrate a "positive response" to the Department's
intervention. A defense would have been that petitioner
had arranged for the child to be cared for properly by his
grandmother, and evidence might have been adduced to
demonstrate the adequacy of the grandmother's care of
the other children. See, e. g., In re Valdez, 29 Utah.2d
63, 504 P.2d 1372 (1973); Welfare Commissioner v.
Anonymous, 33 Conn.Sup. 100, 364 A.2d 250 (1976);
Diernfeld v. People, 137 Colo. 238, 323 P.2d 628 (1958).
See generally Moore v. East Cleveland, 431 U. S., at 504
(plurality opinion); id., at 508-510 (opinion of
BRENNAN, J.). The Department's own "diligence" in
promoting the family's integrity was never put in issue
during the hearing, yet it is surely significant in light of
petitioner's incarceration and lack of access to her child.
See, e. g., Weaver v. Roanoke Dept. of Human
Resources, 220 Va. 921, 929, 265 S.E.2d 692, 697 (1980);
In re Christopher H., 577 P.2d 1292, 1294 (Okla. 1978);
In re Kimberly I., 72 App. Div. 2d 831, 833, 421
N.Y.S.2d 649, 651 (1979). Finally, the asserted
willfulness of petitioner's lack of concern could
obviously have been attacked since she was physically
unable to regain custody or perhaps even to receive
meaningful visits during 21 of the 24 months preceding
the action. Cf. In re Dinsmore, 36 N.C. App. 720, 245
S.E.2d 386 (1978).
[452 U.S. 57]
 III
Petitioner plainly has not led the life of the exemplary
citizen or model parent. It may well be that if she were
accorded competent legal representation, the ultimate
result in this particular case would be the same. But the
issue before the Court is not petitioner's character; it is
whether she was given a meaningful opportunity to be
heard when the State moved to terminate absolutely her
parental rights.
26 
 In light of the unpursued avenues of
defense, and of the experience petitioner underwent at
the hearing, I find virtually incredible the Court's
conclusion today that her termination proceeding was
fundamentally fair. To reach that conclusion, the Court
simply ignores the defendant's obvious inability to speak
effectively for herself, a factor the Court has found to be
highly significant in past cases. See Gagnon v. Scarpelli,
411 U. S., at 791; Uveges v. Pennsylvania, 335 U. S., at
441-442; Bute v. Illinois, 333 U.S. 640, 677 (1948). See
also Vitek v. Jones, 445 U. S., at 496-497 (plurality
opinion); id., at 498 (opinion of POWELL, J.). I am
unable to ignore that factor; instead, I believe that the
record, and the norms of 
[452 U.S. 58]
 fairness
acknowledged by the majority, compel a holding
according counsel to petitioner and persons similarly
situated.
Finally, I deem it not a little ironic that the Court on this
very day grants, on due process grounds, an indigent
putative father's claim for state-paid blood grouping
tests in the interest of according him a meaningful
opportunity to disprove his paternity, Little v. Streater,
ante, p. 1, but in the present case rejects, on due process
grounds, an indigent mother's claim for state-paid legal
assistance when the State seeks to take her own child
away from her in a termination proceeding. In Little v.
Streater, the Court stresses and relies upon the need for
"procedural fairness," the "compelling interest in the
accuracy of [the] determination," the "not
inconsiderable" risk of error, the indigent's "fac[ing] the
State as an adversary," and "fundamental fairness," ante,
at 13, 14, and 16.
There is some measure of inconsistency and tension
here, it seems to me. I can attribute the distinction the
Court draws only to a presumed difference between
what it views as the "civil" and the "quasi-criminal,"
Little v. Streater, ante, at 10. Given the factual context of
the two cases decided today, the significance of that
presumed difference eludes me.
Ours, supposedly, is "a maturing society," Trop v.
Dulles, 356 U.S. 86, 101 (1958) (plurality opinion), and
our notion of due process is, "perhaps, the least frozen
concept of our law." Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U.S. 12, 20
(1956) (opinion concurring in judgment). If the Court in
Boddie v. Connecticut, 401 U.S. 371 (1971), was able to
perceive as constitutionally necessary the access to
judicial resources required to dissolve a marriage at the
behest of private parties, surely it should perceive as
similarly necessary the requested access to legal
resources when the State itself seeks to dissolve the
intimate and personal family bonds between parent and
child. It will not open the "floodgates" that, I suspect, the
Court 
[452 U.S. 59]
 fears. On the contrary, we cannot
constitutionally afford the closure that the result in this
sad case imposes upon us all.
I respectfully dissent.