A Kentucky statute provides that in forcible entry or
detainer actions, service of process may be made under
certain circumstances by posting a summons on the
door of a tenant's apartment. The question presented is
whether this statute, as applied to tenants in a public
housing project, fails to afford those tenants the notice
of proceedings initiated against them required by the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
[456 U.S. 446] I
Appellees Linnie Lindsey, Barbara Hodgens, and Pamela
Ray are tenants in a Louisville, Ky., housing project.
Appellants are the Sheriff of Jefferson County, Ky., and
certain unnamed Deputy Sheriffs charged with
responsibility for serving process in forcible entry and
detainer actions. In 1975, the Housing Authority of
Louisville initiated detainer actions against each of
appellees, seeking repossession of their apartments.
Service of process was made pursuant to Ky. Rev. Stat. §
454.030 (1975), which states:
"If the officer directed to serve notice on the defendant in forcible
entry or detainer proceedings cannot find the defendant on the
premises mentioned in the writ, he may explain and leave a copy of
the notice with any member of the defendant's family thereon over
sixteen (16) years of age, and if no such person is found he may
serve the notice by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on
the premises. The notice shall state the time and place of meeting of
the court."
In each instance, notice took the form of posting a copy
of the writ of forcible entry and detainer on the door of
the tenant's apartment.1 Appellees claim never to have
seen these posted summonses; they state that they did
not learn of the [456 U.S. 447] eviction proceedings until
they were served with writs of possession, executed
after default judgments had been entered against them,
and after their opportunity for appeal had lapsed.
Thus without recourse in the state courts, appellees filed
this suit as a class action in the United States District
Court for the Western District of Kentucky, seeking
declaratory and injunctive relief under 42 U. S. C. §
1983. They claimed that the notice procedure employed
as a predicate to these eviction proceedings did not
satisfy the minimum standards of constitutionally
adequate notice described in Mullane v. Central
Hanover Bank & Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306 (1950), and
that the Commonwealth of Kentucky had thus failed to
afford them the due process of law guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment. Named as defendants were the
Housing Authority of Louisville, several public officials
charged with responsibility over particular Louisville
public housing projects, Joseph Greene, the Jefferson
County Sheriff, and certain known and unknown
Deputy Sheriffs.
On cross-motions for summary judgment, the District
Court granted judgment for appellants. In an
unreported opinion, the court noted that some 70 years
earlier, in Weber v. Grand Lodge of Kentucky, F. & A.
M., 169 F. 522 (1909), the Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit had held that constructive notice by posting on
the door of a building, pursuant to the predecessor
statute to § 454.030, provided an adequate constitutional
basis upon which to commence an eviction action, on
the ground that it was reasonable for the State to
presume that a notice posted on the door of the building
in dispute would give the tenant actual notice in time to
contest the action. Although the District Court
recognized that "conditions have changed since the
decision in Weber . . . and. . . that there is undisputed
testimony in this case that notices posted on the
apartment doors of tenants are often removed by other
tenants," App. 41-42, the court nevertheless concluded
that the procedures employed did not deny due [456 U.S.
448] process in light of the fact "that posting only comes
into play after the officer directed to serve notice cannot
find the defendant on the premises," id., at 42.
The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed the
grant of summary judgment in favor of appellants and
remanded the case for further proceedings. 649 F.2d 425
(1981). Acknowledging that its decision in Weber
directed a contrary result, the Court of Appeals
examined the doctrinal basis of that decision, and
concluded that it rested in part on distinctions between
actions in rem and actions in personam that had been
drawn in cases such as Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714
(1878); Huling v. Kaw Valley Railway & Improvement
Co., 130 U.S. 559 (1889); Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U.S. 316
(1890); Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U.S. 241 (1907); and
Longyear v. Toolan, 209 U.S. 414 (1908), and that had
been substantially undercut by intervening decisions of
this Court. In overruling Weber, the Court of Appeals
cited International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S.
310 (1945), Mullane, supra, and Shaffer v. Heitner, 433
U.S. 186 (1977), as cases calling for a more realistic
appraisal of the adequacy of process provided by the
State. Turning to the circumstances of this case and the
procedures contemplated by § 454.030, the Court of
Appeals noted that while there may have been "a time
when posting provided a surer means of giving notice
than did mailing, [t]hat time has passed. The
uncontradicted testimony by process servers themselves
that posted summonses are not infrequently removed by
persons other than those served constitutes effective
confirmation of the conclusion that notice by posting `is
not reasonably calculated to reach those who could
easily be informed by other means at hand,' " 649 F. 2d,
at 428, quoting Mullane, supra, at 319.2 The court held,
therefore, that the notice provided [456 U.S. 449]
pursuant to § 454.030 was constitutionally deficient. We
noted probable jurisdiction, 454 U.S. 938 (1981), and
now affirm.
II
A
"The fundamental requisite of due process of law is the
opportunity to be heard." Grannis v. Ordean, 234 U.S.
385, 394 (1914). And the "right to be heard has little
reality or worth unless one is informed that the matter is
pending and can choose for himself whether to appear
or default, acquiesce or contest," Mullane, supra, at 314.
Personal service guarantees actual notice of the
pendency of a legal action; it thus presents the ideal
circumstance under which to commence legal
proceedings against a person, and has traditionally been
deemed necessary in actions styled in personam.
McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U.S. 90, 92 (1917).
Nevertheless, certain less rigorous notice procedures
have enjoyed substantial acceptance throughout our
legal history; in light of this history and the practical
obstacles to providing personal service in every
instance, we have allowed judicial proceedings to be
prosecuted in some situations on the basis of procedures
that do not carry with them the same certainty of actual
notice that inheres in personal service. But we have also
clearly recognized that the Due Process Clause does
prescribe a constitutional minimum: "An elementary
and fundamental requirement of due process in any
proceeding which is to be accorded finality is notice
reasonably calculated, under all the circumstances, to
apprise interested parties of the [456 U.S. 450] pendency
of the action and afford them an opportunity to present
their objections." Mullane, 339 U. S., at 314 (emphasis
added). It is against this standard that we evaluate the
procedures employed in this case.
B
Appellants argue that because a forcible entry and
detainer action is an action in rem, notice by posting is
ipso facto constitutionally adequate. Appellees concede
that posting has traditionally been deemed appropriate
for in rem proceedings, but argue that detainer actions
can now encompass more than the simple issue of the
tenant's continued right to possession, and that they
therefore require the more exacting forms of notice
customarily provided for proceedings in personam.
Appellants counter by conceding that if the particular
detainer proceeding was one in which the landlord
sought to recover past due rent, personal service would
be required by Kentucky law, but argue that such claims
are unusual in such proceedings, and that in the case
before us the landlord claimed only a right to recover
possession. Tr. of Oral Arg. 19-21.
As in Mullane, we decline to resolve the constitutional
question based upon the determination whether the
particular action is more properly characterized as one
in rem or in personam. 339 U. S., at 312. See Shaffer v.
Heitner, supra, at 206. That is not to say that the nature
of the action has no bearing on a constitutional
assessment of the reasonableness of the procedures
employed. The character of the action reflects the extent
to which the court purports to extend its power, and
thus may roughly describe the scope of potential adverse
consequences to the person claiming a right to more
effective notice. But " `[a]ll proceedings, like all rights,
are really against persons.' "3 In this case, appellees [456
U.S. 451] have been deprived of a significant interest in
property: indeed, of the right to continued residence in
their homes.4 In light of this deprivation, it will not
suffice to recite that because the action is in rem, it is
only necessary to serve notice "upon the thing itself."5
The sufficiency of notice must be tested with reference
to its ability to inform people of the pendency of
proceedings that affect their interests. In arriving at the
constitutional assessment, we look to the realities of the
case before us: In determining the constitutionality of a
procedure established by the State to provide notice in a
particular class of cases, "its effect must be judged in the
light of its practical application to the affairs of men as
they are ordinarily conducted." North Laramie Land Co.
v. Hoffman, 268 U.S. 276, 283 (1925).
It is, of course, reasonable to assume that a property
owner will maintain superintendence of his property,
and to presume that actions physically disturbing his
holdings will come to his attention. See Mullane, supra,
at 316.6 The [456 U.S. 452] frequent restatement of this
rule impresses upon the property owner the fact that a
failure to maintain watch over his property may have
significant legal consequences for him, providing a spur
to his attentiveness, and a consequent reinforcement to
the empirical foundation of the principle. Upon this
understanding, a State may in turn conclude that in
most cases, the secure posting of a notice on the
property of a person is likely to offer that property
owner sufficient warning of the pendency of
proceedings possibly affecting his interests.
The empirical basis of the presumption that notice
posted upon property is adequate to alert the owner or
occupant of property of the pendency of legal
proceedings would appear to make the presumption
particularly well founded where notice is posted at a
residence. With respect to claims affecting the
continued possession of that residence, the application
of this presumption seems particularly apt: If the tenant
has a continuing interest in maintaining possession of
the property for his use and occupancy, he might
reasonably be expected to frequent the premises; if he no
longer occupies the premises, then the injury that might
result from his not having received actual notice as a
consequence of the posted notice is reduced. Short of
providing personal service, then, posting notice on the
door of a person's home would, in many [456 U.S. 453]
or perhaps most instances, constitute not only a
constitutionally acceptable means of service, but indeed
a singularly appropriate and effective way of ensuring
that a person who cannot conveniently be served
personally is actually apprised of proceedings against
him.
But whatever the efficacy of posting in many cases, it is
clear that, in the circumstances of this case, merely
posting notice on an apartment door does not satisfy
minimum standards of due process. In a significant
number of instances, reliance on posting pursuant to the
provisions of § 454.030 results in a failure to provide
actual notice to the tenant concerned. Indeed, appellees
claim to have suffered precisely such a failure of actual
notice. As the process servers were well aware, notices
posted on apartment doors in the area where these
tenants lived were "not infrequently" removed by
children or other tenants before they could have their
intended effect.7 Under these conditions, notice by [456
U.S. 454] posting on the apartment door cannot be
considered a "reliable means of acquainting interested
parties of the fact that their rights are before the courts."
Mullane, 339 U. S., at 315.
Of course, the reasonableness of the notice provided
must be tested with reference to the existence of
"feasible and customary" alternatives and supplements to
the form of notice chosen. Ibid. In this connection, we
reject appellants' characterization of the procedure
contemplated by § 454.030 as one in which " `posting' is
used as a method of service only as a last resort." Brief
for Appellants 7. To be sure, the statute requires the
officer serving notice to make a visit to the tenant's
home and to attempt to serve the writ personally on the
tenant or some member of his family. But if no one is at
home at the time of that visit, as is apparently true in a
"good percentage" of cases,8 posting follows forthwith.
Neither the statute, nor the practice of the process
servers, makes provision for even a second attempt at
personal service, perhaps at some time of day when the
tenant is more likely to be at home. The failure to effect
personal service on the first visit hardly suggests that the
tenant has abandoned his interest in the apartment such
that mere pro forma notice might be held
constitutionally adequate. Cf. Mullane, 339 U. S., at 317-
318.
[456 U.S. 455] As noted by the Court of Appeals, and as
we noted in Mullane, the mails provide an "efficient and
inexpensive means of communication," id., at 319, upon
which prudent men will ordinarily rely in the conduct of
important affairs, id., at 319-320. Notice by mail in the
circumstances of this case would surely go a long way
toward providing the constitutionally required
assurance that the State has not allowed its power to be
invoked against a person who has had no opportunity to
present a defense despite a continuing interest in the
resolution of the controversy.9 Particularly where the
subject matter of the action also happens to be the
mailing address of the defendant, and where personal
service is ineffectual, notice by mail may reasonably be
relied upon to provide interested persons with actual
notice of judicial proceedings. We need not go so far as
to insist that in order to "dispense with personal service
the substitute that is most likely to reach the defendant
is the least that ought to be required," McDonald v.
Mabee, 243 U. S., at 92, in order to recognize that where
an inexpensive and efficient mechanism such as mail
service is available to enhance the reliability of an
otherwise unreliable notice procedure, the State's
continued exclusive reliance on an ineffective means of
service is not notice "reasonably calculated to reach
those who could [456 U.S. 456] easily be informed by
other means at hand." Mullane, supra, at 319.10
III
We conclude that in failing to afford appellees adequate
notice of the proceedings against them before issuing
final orders of eviction, the State has deprived them of
property without the due process of law required by the
Fourteenth Amendment. The judgment of the Court of
Appeals is therefore
Affirmed.