In New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U.S. 254, 279-
280 (1964), we held that, in a libel suit brought by a
public official, the First Amendment requires the
plaintiff to show that in publishing the defamatory
statement the defendant acted with actual malice —
"with knowledge that it was false or with reckless
disregard of whether it was false or not." We held
further that such actual malice must be shown with
"convincing clarity." Id., at 285-286. See also Gertz v.
Robert Welch, Inc., 418 U.S. 323, 342 (1974). These
New York Times requirements we have since extended
to libel suits brought by public figures as well. See, e. g.,
Curtis Publishing Co. v. Butts, 388 U.S. 130 (1967).
This case presents the question whether the clear-andconvincing-evidence
requirement must be considered
by a court ruling on a motion for summary judgment
under Rule 56 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in
a case to which New York Times applies. The United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit held that that requirement need not be
considered at the summary judgment stage. 241 U. S.
App. D. C. 246, 746 F.2d 1563 (1984). We granted
certiorari, 471 U.S. 1134 (1985), because that holding
was in conflict with decisions of several other Courts of
Appeals, which had held that the New York Times
requirement of clear and convincing evidence must be
considered on a motion for summary judgment. We
now reverse.
I
Respondent Liberty Lobby, Inc., is a not-for-profit
corporation and self-described "citizens' lobby."
Respondent Willis Carto is its founder and treasurer. In
October 1981, [477 U.S. 245] The Investigator magazine
published two articles: "The Private World of Willis
Carto" and "Yockey: Profile of an American Hitler."
These articles were introduced by a third, shorter article
entitled "America's Neo-Nazi Underground: Did Mein
Kampf Spawn Yockey's Imperium, a Book Revived by
Carto's Liberty Lobby?" These articles portrayed
respondents as neo-Nazi, anti-Semitic, racist, and
Fascist.
Respondents filed this diversity libel action in the
United States District Court for the District of
Columbia, alleging that some 28 statements and 2
illustrations in the 3 articles were false and derogatory.
Named as defendants in the action were petitioner Jack
Anderson, the publisher of The Investigator, petitioner
Bill Adkins, president and chief executive officer of the
Investigator Publishing Co., and petitioner Investigator
Publishing Co. itself.
Following discovery, petitioners moved for summary
judgment pursuant to Rule 56. In their motion,
petitioners asserted that because respondents are public
figures they were required to prove their case under the
standards set forth in New York Times. Petitioners also
asserted that summary judgment was proper because
actual malice was absent as a matter of law. In support of
this latter assertion, petitioners submitted the affidavit
of Charles Bermant, an employee of petitioners and the
author of the two longer articles. In this affidavit,
Bermant stated that he had spent a substantial amount
of time researching and writing the articles and that his
facts were obtained from a wide variety of sources. He
also stated that he had at all times believed and still
believed that the facts contained in the articles were
truthful and accurate. Attached to this affidavit was an
appendix in which Bermant detailed the sources for each
of the statements alleged by respondents to be libelous.
[477 U.S. 246] Respondents opposed the motion for
summary judgment, asserting that there were numerous
inaccuracies in the articles and claiming that an issue of
actual malice was presented by virtue of the fact that in
preparing the articles Bermant had relied on several
sources that respondents asserted were patently
unreliable. Generally, respondents charged that
petitioners had failed adequately to verify their
information before publishing. Respondents also
presented evidence that William McGaw, an editor of
The Investigator, had told petitioner Adkins before
publication that the articles were "terrible" and
"ridiculous."
In ruling on the motion for summary judgment, the
District Court first held that respondents were limitedpurpose
public figures and that New York Times
therefore applied. The District Court then held that
Bermant's thorough investigation and research and his
reliance on numerous sources precluded a finding of
actual malice. Thus, the District Court granted the
motion and entered judgment in favor of petitioners.
On appeal, the Court of Appeals affirmed as to 21 and
reversed as to 9 of the allegedly defamatory statements.
Although it noted that respondents did not challenge
the District Court's ruling that they were limitedpurpose
public [477 U.S. 247] figures and that they were
thus required to prove their case under New York
Times, the Court of Appeals nevertheless held that for
the purposes of summary judgment the requirement
that actual malice be proved by clear and convincing
evidence, rather than by a preponderance of the
evidence, was irrelevant: To defeat summary judgment
respondents did not have to show that a jury could find
actual malice with "convincing clarity." The court based
this conclusion on a perception that to impose the
greater evidentiary burden at summary judgment
"would change the threshold summary judgment inquiry
from a search for a minimum of facts supporting the
plaintiff's case to an evaluation of the weight of those
facts and (it would seem) of the weight of at least the
defendant's uncontroverted facts as well." 241 U. S. App.
D. C., at 253, 746 F. 2d, at 1570. The court then held,
with respect to nine of the statements, that summary
judgment had been improperly granted because "a jury
could reasonably conclude that the . . . allegations were
defamatory, false, and made with actual malice." Id., at
260, 746 F. 2d, at 1577.
II
A
Our inquiry is whether the Court of Appeals erred in
holding that the heightened evidentiary requirements
that apply to proof of actual malice in this New York
Times case need not be considered for the purposes of a
motion for summary judgment. Rule 56(c) of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provides that summary
judgment "shall be rendered forthwith if the pleadings,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions
on file, together with the affidavits, if any, show that
there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of
law." By its very terms, this standard provides that the
mere existence of some alleged factual dispute between
the parties will not defeat an otherwise properly
supported [477 U.S. 248] motion for summary
judgment; the requirement is that there be no genuine
issue of material fact.
As to materiality, the substantive law will identify which
facts are material. Only disputes over facts that might
affect the outcome of the suit under the governing law
will properly preclude the entry of summary judgment.
Factual disputes that are irrelevant or unnecessary will
not be counted. See generally 10A C. Wright, A. Miller,
& M. Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure § 2725, pp.
93-95 (1983). This materiality inquiry is independent of
and separate from the question of the incorporation of
the evidentiary standard into the summary judgment
determination. That is, while the materiality
determination rests on the substantive law, it is the
substantive law's identification of which facts are critical
and which facts are irrelevant that governs. Any proof
or evidentiary requirements imposed by the substantive
law are not germane to this inquiry, since materiality is
only a criterion for categorizing factual disputes in their
relation to the legal elements of the claim and not a
criterion for evaluating the evidentiary underpinnings
of those disputes.
More important for present purposes, summary
judgment will not lie if the dispute about a material fact
is "genuine," that is, if the evidence is such that a
reasonable jury could return a verdict for the
nonmoving party. In First National Bank of Arizona v.
Cities Service Co., 391 U.S. 253 (1968), we affirmed a
grant of summary judgment for an antitrust defendant
where the issue was whether there was a genuine factual
dispute as to the existence of a conspiracy. We noted
Rule 56(e)'s provision that a party opposing a properly
supported motion for summary judgment " `may not
rest upon the mere allegations or denials of his pleading,
but . . . must set forth specific facts showing that there is
a genuine issue for trial.' " We observed further that
"[i]t is true that the issue of material fact required by Rule 56(c) to
be present to entitle a party to proceed to [477 U.S. 249] trial is not
required to be resolved conclusively in favor of the party asserting
its existence; rather, all that is required is that sufficient evidence
supporting the claimed factual dispute be shown to require a jury or
judge to resolve the parties' differing versions of the truth at trial."
391 U. S., at 288-289.
We went on to hold that, in the face of the defendant's
properly supported motion for summary judgment, the
plaintiff could not rest on his allegations of a conspiracy
to get to a jury without "any significant probative
evidence tending to support the complaint." Id., at 290.
Again, in Adickes v. S. H. Kress & Co., 398 U.S. 144
(1970), the Court emphasized that the availability of
summary judgment turned on whether a proper jury
question was presented. There, one of the issues was
whether there was a conspiracy between private persons
and law enforcement officers. The District Court
granted summary judgment for the defendants, stating
that there was no evidence from which reasonably
minded jurors might draw an inference of conspiracy.
We reversed, pointing out that the moving parties'
submissions had not foreclosed the possibility of the
existence of certain facts from which "it would be open
to a jury . . . to infer from the circumstances" that there
had been a meeting of the minds. Id., at 158-159.
Our prior decisions may not have uniformly recited the
same language in describing genuine factual issues under
Rule 56, but it is clear enough from our recent cases that
at the summary judgment stage the judge's function is
not himself to weigh the evidence and determine the
truth of the matter but to determine whether there is a
genuine issue for trial. As Adickes, supra, and Cities
Service, supra, indicate, there is no issue for trial unless
there is sufficient evidence favoring the nonmoving
party for a jury to return a verdict for that party. Cities
Service, supra, at 288-289. If the evidence is merely
colorable, Dombrowski v. Eastland, 387 U.S. 82 (1967)
(per curiam), or is not significantly probative, [477 U.S.
250] Cities Service, supra, at 290, summary judgment
may be granted.
That this is the proper focus of the inquiry is strongly
suggested by the Rule itself. Rule 56(e) provides that,
when a properly supported motion for summary
judgment is made, the adverse party "must set forth
specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue for
trial." And, as we noted above, Rule 56(c) provides that
the trial judge shall then grant summary judgment if
there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and if
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law. There is no requirement that the trial judge make
findings of fact. The inquiry performed is the threshold
inquiry of determining whether there is the need for a
trial — whether, in other words, there are any genuine
factual issues that properly can be resolved only by a
finder of fact because they may reasonably be resolved in
favor of either party.
Petitioners suggest, and we agree, that this standard
mirrors the standard for a directed verdict under Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 50(a), which is that the trial
judge must direct a verdict if, under the governing law,
there can be but one reasonable conclusion as to the
verdict. Brady v. Southern R. Co., 320 U.S. 476, 479-480
(1943). If reasonable minds could differ as to the import
of the evidence, however, [477 U.S. 251] a verdict should
not be directed. Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 336 U.S. 53, 62
(1949). As the Court long ago said in Improvement Co.
v. Munson, 14 Wall. 442, 448 (1872), and has several
times repeated:
"Nor are judges any longer required to submit a question to a jury
merely because some evidence has been introduced by the party
having the burden of proof, unless the evidence be of such a
character that it would warrant the jury in finding a verdict in favor
of that party. Formerly it was held that if there was what is called a
scintilla of evidence in support of case the judge was bound to leave
it to the jury, but recent decisions of high authority have established
a more reasonable rule, that in every case, before the evidence is left
to the jury, there is a preliminary question for the judge, not
whether there is literally no evidence, but whether there is any
upon which a jury could properly proceed to find a verdict for the
party producing it, upon whom the onus of proof is imposed."
(Footnotes omitted.)
See also Pleasants v. Fant, 22 Wall. 116, 120-121 (1875);
Coughran v. Bigelow, 164 U.S. 301, 307 (1896);
Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Chamberlain, 288 U.S. 333, 343
(1933).
The Court has said that summary judgment should be
granted where the evidence is such that it "would
require a directed verdict for the moving party." Sartor
v. Arkansas Gas Corp., 321 U.S. 620, 624 (1944). And
we have noted that the "genuine issue" summary
judgment standard is "very close" to the "reasonable
jury" directed verdict standard: "The primary difference
between the two motions is procedural; summary
judgment motions are usually made before trial and
decided on documentary evidence, while directed
verdict motions are made at trial and decided on the
evidence that has been admitted." Bill Johnson's
Restaurants, Inc. v. NLRB, 461 U.S. 731, 745, n. 11
(1983). In essence, though, the inquiry under each is the
same: whether the evidence presents a sufficient
disagreement to require submission [477 U.S. 252] to a
jury or whether it is so one-sided that one party must
prevail as a matter of law.
B
Progressing to the specific issue in this case, we are
convinced that the inquiry involved in a ruling on a
motion for summary judgment or for a directed verdict
necessarily implicates the substantive evidentiary
standard of proof that would apply at the trial on the
merits. If the defendant in a run-of-the-mill civil case
moves for summary judgment or for a directed verdict
based on the lack of proof of a material fact, the judge
must ask himself not whether he thinks the evidence
unmistakably favors one side or the other but whether a
fair-minded jury could return a verdict for the plaintiff
on the evidence presented. The mere existence of a
scintilla of evidence in support of the plaintiff's position
will be insufficient; there must be evidence on which the
jury could reasonably find for the plaintiff. The judge's
inquiry, therefore, unavoidably asks whether reasonable
jurors could find by a preponderance of the evidence
that the plaintiff is entitled to a verdict — "whether there
is [evidence] upon which a jury can properly proceed to
find a verdict for the party producing it, upon whom the
onus of proof is imposed." Munson, supra, at 448.
In terms of the nature of the inquiry, this is no different
from the consideration of a motion for acquittal in a
criminal case, where the beyond-a-reasonable-doubt
standard applies and where the trial judge asks whether
a reasonable jury could find guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt. See Jackson v. Virginia, 443 U.S. 307, 318-319
(1979). Similarly, where the First Amendment mandates
a "clear and convincing" standard, the trial judge in
disposing of a directed verdict motion should consider
whether a reasonable factfinder could conclude, for
example, that the plaintiff had shown actual malice with
convincing clarity.
[477 U.S. 253] The case for the proposition that a higher
burden of proof should have a corresponding effect on
the judge when deciding whether to send the case to the
jury was well made by the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit in United States v. Taylor, 464 F.2d 240
(1972), which overruled United States v. Feinberg, 140
F.2d 592 (1944), a case holding that the standard of
evidence necessary for a judge to send a case to the jury
is the same in both civil and criminal cases even though
the standard that the jury must apply in a criminal case
is more demanding than in civil proceedings. Speaking
through Judge Friendly, the Second Circuit said: "It
would seem at first blush — and we think also at second
— that more `facts in evidence' are needed for the judge
to allow [reasonable jurors to pass on a claim] when the
proponent is required to establish [the claim] not
merely by a preponderance of the evidence but . . .
beyond a reasonable doubt." 464 F. 2d, at 242. The court
could not find a "satisfying explanation in the Feinberg
opinion why the judge should not place this higher
burden on the prosecution in criminal proceedings
before sending the case to the jury." Ibid. The Taylor
court also pointed out that almost all the Circuits had
adopted something like Judge Prettyman's formulation
in Curley v. United States, 160 F.2d 229, 232-233
(1947):
"The true rule, therefore, is that a trial judge, in passing upon a
motion for directed verdict of acquittal, must determine whether
upon the evidence, giving full play to the right of the jury to
determine credibility, weigh the evidence, and draw justifiable
inferences of fact, a reasonable mind might fairly conclude guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt. If he concludes that upon the evidence
there must be such a doubt in a reasonable mind, he must grant the
motion; or, to state it another way, if there is no evidence upon
which a reasonable mind might fairly conclude guilt beyond
reasonable doubt, the motion must be granted. If he concludes that
either of the [477 U.S. 254] two results, a reasonable doubt or no
reasonable doubt, is fairly possible, he must let the jury decide the
matter."
This view is equally applicable to a civil case to which
the "clear and convincing" standard applies. Indeed, the
Taylor court thought that it was implicit in this Court's
adoption of the clear-and-convincing-evidence standard
for certain kinds of cases that there was a "concomitant
duty on the judge to consider the applicable burden
when deciding whether to send a case to the jury." 464
F. 2d, at 243. Although the court thought that this
higher standard would not produce different results in
many cases, it could not say that it would never do so.
Just as the "convincing clarity" requirement is relevant
in ruling on a motion for directed verdict, it is relevant
in ruling on a motion for summary judgment. When
determining if a genuine factual issue as to actual malice
exists in a libel suit brought by a public figure, a trial
judge must bear in mind the actual quantum and quality
of proof necessary to support liability under New York
Times. For example, there is no genuine issue if the
evidence presented in the opposing affidavits is of
insufficient caliber or quantity to allow a rational finder
of fact to find actual malice by clear and convincing
evidence.
Thus, in ruling on a motion for summary judgment, the
judge must view the evidence presented through the
prism of the substantive evidentiary burden. This
conclusion is mandated by the nature of this
determination. The question here is whether a jury
could reasonably find either that the plaintiff proved his
case by the quality and quantity of evidence required by
the governing law or that he did not. Whether a jury
could reasonably find for either party, however, cannot
be defined except by the criteria governing what
evidence would enable the jury to find for either the
plaintiff or the defendant: It makes no sense to say that a
jury could reasonably find for either party without some
[477 U.S. 255] benchmark as to what standards govern
its deliberations and within what boundaries its ultimate
decision must fall, and these standards and boundaries
are in fact provided by the applicable evidentiary
standards.
Our holding that the clear-and-convincing standard of
proof should be taken into account in ruling on
summary judgment motions does not denigrate the role
of the jury. It by no means authorizes trial on affidavits.
Credibility determinations, the weighing of the
evidence, and the drawing of legitimate inferences from
the facts are jury functions, not those of a judge,
whether he is ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or for a directed verdict. The evidence of the
nonmovant is to be believed, and all justifiable
inferences are to be drawn in his favor. Adickes, 398 U.
S., at 158-159. Neither do we suggest that the trial
courts should act other than with caution in granting
summary judgment or that the trial court may not deny
summary judgment in a case where there is reason to
believe that the better course would be to proceed to a
full trial. Kennedy v. Silas Mason Co., 334 U.S. 249
(1948).
In sum, we conclude that the determination of whether
a given factual dispute requires submission to a jury
must be guided by the substantive evidentiary standards
that apply to the case. This is true at both the directed
verdict and summary judgment stages. Consequently,
where the New York Times "clear and convincing"
evidence requirement applies, the trial judge's summary
judgment inquiry as to whether a genuine issue exists
will be whether the evidence presented is such that a
jury applying that evidentiary standard could reasonably
find for either the plaintiff or the defendant. Thus,
where the factual dispute concerns actual malice, clearly
a material issue in a New York Times case, the
appropriate summary judgment question will be
whether the evidence in the record could support a
reasonable jury finding [477 U.S. 256] either that the
plaintiff has shown actual malice by clear and
convincing evidence or that the plaintiff has not.
III
Respondents argue, however, that whatever may be true
of the applicability of the "clear and convincing"
standard at the summary judgment or directed verdict
stage, the defendant should seldom if ever be granted
summary judgment where his state of mind is at issue
and the jury might disbelieve him or his witnesses as to
this issue. They rely on Poller v. Columbia Broadcasting
Co., 368 U.S. 464 (1962), for this proposition. We do
not understand Poller, however, to hold that a plaintiff
may defeat a defendant's properly supported motion for
summary judgment in a conspiracy or libel case, for
example, without offering any concrete evidence from
which a reasonable juror could return a verdict in his
favor and by merely asserting that the jury might, and
legally could, disbelieve the defendant's denial of a
conspiracy or of legal malice. The movant has the
burden of showing that there is no genuine issue of fact,
but the plaintiff is not thereby relieved of his own
burden of producing in turn evidence that would
support a jury verdict. Rule 56(e) itself provides that a
party opposing a properly supported motion for
summary judgment may not rest upon mere allegation
or denials of his pleading, but must set forth specific
facts showing that there is a genuine issue for trial.
Based on that Rule, Cities Service, 391 U. S., at 290, held
that the plaintiff could not defeat the properly supported
summary judgment motion of a defendant charged with
a conspiracy without offering "any significant probative
evidence tending to support the complaint." As we have
recently said, "discredited testimony [477 U.S. 257] is
not [normally] considered a sufficient basis for drawing
a contrary conclusion." Bose Corp. v. Consumers Union
of United States, Inc., 466 U.S. 485, 512 (1984). Instead,
the plaintiff must present affirmative evidence in order
to defeat a properly supported motion for summary
judgment. This is true even where the evidence is likely
to be within the possession of the defendant, as long as
the plaintiff has had a full opportunity to conduct
discovery. We repeat, however, that the plaintiff, to
survive the defendant's motion, need only present
evidence from which a jury might return a verdict in his
favor. If he does so, there is a genuine issue of fact that
requires a trial.
IV
In sum, a court ruling on a motion for summary
judgment must be guided by the New York Times "clear
and convincing" evidentiary standard in determining
whether a genuine issue of actual malice exists — that is,
whether the evidence presented is such that a reasonable
jury might find that actual malice had been shown with
convincing clarity. Because the Court of Appeals did not
apply the correct standard in reviewing the District
Court's grant of summary judgment, we vacate its
decision and remand the case for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.