The question presented is whether the incorporation of
a federal standard in a state-law private action, when
Congress has intended that there not be a federal private
action for violations of that federal standard, makes the
action one "arising under the Constitution, laws, or
treaties of the United States," 28 U. S. C. § 1331.
I
The Thompson respondents are residents of Canada and
the MacTavishes reside in Scotland. They filed virtually
identical complaints against petitioner, a corporation,
that manufactures and distributes the drug Bendectin.
The complaints were filed in the Court of Common
Pleas in Hamilton County, Ohio. Each complaint alleged
that a child was born with multiple deformities as a
result of the mother's ingestion of Bendectin during
pregnancy. In five of the six counts, the recovery of
substantial damages was requested on common-law
theories of negligence, breach of warranty, strict
liability, fraud, and gross negligence. In Count IV,
respondents alleged that the drug Bendectin was
"misbranded" in violation of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), 52 Stat. 1040, as amended,
21 U. S. C. § 301 et seq. (1982 ed. and Supp. III), because
its labeling did not provide adequate [478 U.S. 806]
warning that its use was potentially dangerous.
Paragraph 26 alleged that the violation of the FDCA "in
the promotion" of Bendectin "constitutes a rebuttable
presumption of negligence." Paragraph 27 alleged that
the "violation of said federal statutes directly and
proximately caused the injuries suffered" by the two
infants. App. 22, 32.
Petitioner filed a timely petition for removal from the
state court to the Federal District Court alleging that the
action was "founded, in part, on an alleged claim arising
under the laws of the United States."1 After removal, the
two cases were consolidated. Respondents filed a
motion to remand to the state forum on the ground that
the federal court lacked subject-matter jurisdiction.
Relying on our decision in Smith v. Kansas City Title &
Trust Co., 255 U.S. 180 (1921), the District Court held
that Count IV of the complaint alleged a cause of action
arising under federal law and denied the motion to
remand. It then granted petitioner's motion to dismiss
on forum non conveniens grounds.
The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed. 766
F.2d 1005 (1985). After quoting one sentence from the
concluding paragraph in our recent opinion in
Franchise Tax Board v. Construction Laborers Vacation
Trust, 463 U.S. 1 (1983),2 and noting "that the FDCA
does not create or imply [478 U.S. 807] a private right of
action for individuals injured as a result of violations of
the Act," it explained:
"Federal question jurisdiction would, thus, exist only if plaintiffs'
right to relief depended necessarily on a substantial question of
federal law. Plaintiffs' causes of action referred to the FDCA merely
as one available criterion for determining whether Merrell Dow
was negligent. Because the jury could find negligence on the part of
Merrell Dow without finding a violation of the FDCA, the
plaintiffs' causes of action did not depend necessarily upon a
question of federal law. Consequently, the causes of action did not
arise under federal law and, therefore, were improperly removed to
federal court." 766 F. 2d, at 1006.
We granted certiorari, 474 U.S. 1004 (1985), and we
now affirm.
II
Article III of the Constitution gives the federal courts
power to hear cases "arising under" federal statutes.3
That grant of power, however, is not self-executing, and
it was not until the Judiciary Act of 1875 that Congress
gave the federal courts general federal-question
jurisdiction.4 Although the constitutional meaning of
"arising under" may extend to all cases in which a federal
question is "an ingredient" of the action, Osborn v. Bank
of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 823 (1824), we have
long construed the statutory grant of federal-question
jurisdiction as conferring a more limited power. [478
U.S. 808] Verlinden B. V. v. Central Bank of Nigeria,
461 U.S. 480, 494-495 (1983); Romero v. International
Terminal Operating Co., 358 U.S. 354, 379 (1959).
Under our longstanding interpretation of the current
statutory scheme, the question whether a claim "arises
under" federal law must be determined by reference to
the "well-pleaded complaint." Franchise Tax Board, 463
U. S., at 9-10. A defense that raises a federal question is
inadequate to confer federal jurisdiction. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 211 U.S. 149 (1908). Since a
defendant may remove a case only if the claim could
have been brought in federal court, 28 U. S. C. §
1441(b), moreover, the question for removal
jurisdiction must also be determined by reference to the
"well-pleaded complaint."
As was true in Franchise Tax Board, supra, the
propriety of the removal in this case thus turns on
whether the case falls within the original "federal
question" jurisdiction of the federal courts. There is no
"single, precise definition" of that concept; rather, "the
phrase `arising under' masks a welter of issues regarding
the interrelation of federal and state authority and the
proper management of the federal judicial system." Id.,
at 8.
This much, however, is clear. The "vast majority" of
cases that come within this grant of jurisdiction are
covered by Justice Holmes' statement that a " `suit arises
under the law that creates the cause of action.' " Id., at 8-
9, quoting American Well Works Co. v. Layne &
Bowler Co., 241 U.S. 257, 260 (1916). Thus, the vast
majority of cases brought under the general federalquestion
jurisdiction of the federal courts are those in
which federal law creates the cause of action.
We have, however, also noted that a case may arise
under federal law "where the vindication of a right
under state law necessarily turned on some construction
of federal law." [478 U.S. 809] Franchise Tax Board, 463
U. S., at 9.5 Our actual holding in Franchise Tax Board
demonstrates that this statement must be read with
caution; the central issue presented in that case turned
on the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, 29 U. S. C. § 1001 et seq. (1982 ed.
and Supp. III), but we nevertheless concluded that
federal jurisdiction was lacking.
This case does not pose a federal question of the first
kind; respondents do not allege that federal law creates
any of the causes of action that they have asserted.6 This
case thus poses what Justice Frankfurter called the
"litigation-provoking problem," Textile Workers v.
Lincoln Mills, 353 U.S. 448, 470 (1957) [478 U.S. 810]
(dissenting opinion) — the presence of a federal issue in
a state-created cause of action.
In undertaking this inquiry into whether jurisdiction
may lie for the presence of a federal issue in a nonfederal
cause of action, it is, of course, appropriate to begin by
referring to our understanding of the statute conferring
federal-question jurisdiction. We have consistently
emphasized that, in exploring the outer reaches of §
1331, determinations about federal jurisdiction require
sensitive judgments about congressional intent, judicial
power, and the federal system. "If the history of the
interpretation of judiciary legislation teaches us
anything, it teaches the duty to reject treating such
statutes as a wooden set of self-sufficient words. . . . The
Act of 1875 is broadly phrased, but it has been
continuously construed and limited in the light of the
history that produced it, the demands of reason and
coherence, and the dictates of sound judicial policy
which have emerged from the Act's function as a
provision in the mosaic of federal judiciary legislation."
Romero v. International Terminal Operating Co., 358
U. S., at 379. In Franchise Tax Board, we forcefully
reiterated this need for prudence and restraint in the
jurisdictional inquiry: "We have always interpreted
what Skelly Oil [Co. v. Phillips Petroleum Co., 339 U.S.
667, 673 (1950)] called `the current of jurisdictional
legislation since the Act of March 3, 1875' . . . with an
eye to practicality and necessity." 463 U. S., at 20.
In this case, both parties agree with the Court of
Appeals' conclusion that there is no federal cause of
action for FDCA violations. For purposes of our
decision, we assume that this is a correct interpretation
of the FDCA. Thus, as the case comes to us, it is
appropriate to assume that, under the settled framework
for evaluating whether a federal cause of action lies,
some combination of the following factors is present: (1)
the plaintiffs are not part of the class for whose special
benefit the statute was passed; (2) the indicia of
legislative [478 U.S. 811] intent reveal no congressional
purpose to provide a private cause of action; (3) a federal
cause of action would not further the underlying
purposes of the legislative scheme; and (4) the
respondents' cause of action is a subject traditionally
relegated to state law.7 In short, Congress did not intend
a private federal remedy for violations of the statute that
it enacted.
This is the first case in which we have reviewed this
type of jurisdictional claim in light of these factors. That
this is so is not surprising. The development of our
framework for determining whether a private cause of
action exists has proceeded only in the last 11 years, and
its inception represented a significant change in our
approach to congressional silence on the provision of
federal remedies.8
The recent character of that development does not,
however, diminish its importance. Indeed, the very
reasons for the development of the modern implied
remedy doctrine — the "increased complexity of federal
legislation and the increased volume of federal
litigation," as well as "the desirability of a more careful
scrutiny of legislative intent," Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith, Inc. v. Curran, 456 U.S. 353, 377
(1982) (footnote omitted) — are precisely the kind of
considerations that should inform the concern for
"practicality and necessity" that Franchise Tax Board
advised for the construction of § 1331 when jurisdiction
is asserted [478 U.S. 812] because of the presence of a
federal issue in a state cause of action.
The significance of the necessary assumption that there
is no federal private cause of action thus cannot be
overstated. For the ultimate import of such a
conclusion, as we have repeatedly emphasized, is that it
would flout congressional intent to provide a private
federal remedy for the violation of the federal statute.9
We think it would similarly flout, or at least undermine,
congressional intent to conclude that the federal courts
might nevertheless exercise federal-question jurisdiction
and provide remedies for violations of that federal
statute solely because the violation of the federal statute
is said to be a "rebuttable presumption" or a "proximate
cause" under state law, rather than a federal action
under federal law.10
[478 U.S. 813] III
Petitioner advances three arguments to support its
position that, even in the face of this congressional
preclusion of a federal cause of action for a violation of
the federal statute, federal-question jurisdiction may lie
for the violation of the federal statute as an element of a
state cause of action.
First, petitioner contends that the case represents a
straightforward application of the statement in
Franchise Tax Board that federal-question jurisdiction is
appropriate when "it appears that some substantial,
disputed question of federal law is a necessary element
of one of the well-pleaded state claims." 463 U. S., at 13.
Franchise Tax Board, however, did not purport to
disturb the long-settled understanding that the mere
presence of a federal issue in a state cause of action does
not automatically confer federal-question jurisdiction.11
Indeed, in determining that federal-question jurisdiction
was not appropriate in the case before us, we stressed
Justice Cardozo's emphasis on principled, pragmatic
distinctions: " `What is needed is something of that
common-sense accommodation of judgment to
kaleidoscopic situations which characterizes the law in
its treatment of causation . . . a selective process which
picks the substantial causes out of the web [478 U.S. 814]
and lays the other ones aside.' " Id., at 20-21 (quoting
Gully v. First National Bank, 299 U.S. 109, 117-118
(1936)).
Far from creating some kind of automatic test,
Franchise Tax Board thus candidly recognized the need
for careful judgments about the exercise of federal
judicial power in an area of uncertain jurisdiction. Given
the significance of the assumed congressional
determination to preclude federal private remedies, the
presence of the federal issue as an element of the state
tort is not the kind of adjudication for which jurisdiction
would serve congressional purposes and the federal
system. This conclusion is fully consistent with the very
sentence relied on so heavily by petitioner. We simply
conclude that the congressional determination that
there should be no federal remedy for the violation of
this federal statute is tantamount to a congressional
conclusion that the presence of a claimed violation of
the statute as an element of a state cause of action is
insufficiently "substantial" to confer federal-question
jurisdiction.12
[478 U.S. 815] Second, petitioner contends that there is a
powerful federal interest in seeing that the federal
statute is given uniform interpretations, and that federal
review is the best way of insuring such uniformity. In
addition to the significance of the congressional decision
to preclude a federal remedy, we do [478 U.S. 816] not
agree with petitioner's characterization of the federal
interest and its implications for federal-question
jurisdiction. To the extent that petitioner is arguing that
state use and interpretation of the FDCA pose a threat
to the order and stability of the FDCA regime,
petitioner should be arguing, not that federal courts
should be able to review and enforce state FDCA-based
causes of action as an aspect of federal-question
jurisdiction, but that the FDCA pre-empts state-court
jurisdiction over the issue in dispute.13 Petitioner's
concern about the uniformity of interpretation,
moreover, is considerably mitigated by the fact that,
even if there is no original district court jurisdiction for
these kinds of action, this Court retains power to review
the decision of a federal issue in a state cause of action.14
Finally, petitioner argues that, whatever the general
rule, there are special circumstances that justify federalquestion
jurisdiction in this case. Petitioner emphasizes
that it is unclear whether the FDCA applies to sales in
Canada and Scotland; there is, therefore, a special reason
for having a federal [478 U.S. 817] court answer the
novel federal question relating to the extra-territorial
meaning of the Act. We reject this argument. We do
not believe the question whether a particular claim
arises under federal law depends on the novelty of the
federal issue. Although it is true that federal jurisdiction
cannot be based on a frivolous or insubstantial federal
question, "the interrelation of federal and state authority
and the proper management of the federal judicial
system," Franchise Tax Board, 463 U. S., at 8, would be
ill served by a rule that made the existence of federalquestion
jurisdiction depend on the district court's caseby-case
appraisal of the novelty of the federal question
asserted as an element of the state tort. The novelty of
an FDCA issue is not sufficient to give it status as a
federal cause of action; nor should it be sufficient to give
a state-based FDCA claim status as a jurisdictiontriggering
federal question.15
IV
We conclude that a complaint alleging a violation of a
federal statute as an element of a state cause of action,
when Congress has determined that there should be no
private, federal cause of action for the violation, does
not state a claim "arising under the Constitution, laws,
or treaties of the United States." 28 U. S. C. § 1331.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.