I agree with the Court that the Connecticut attachment
statute, "as applied to this case," ante, at 4, fails to satisfy
the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. I
therefore join Parts I, II, and III of its opinion.
Unfortunately, the remainder of the opinion does not
confine itself to the facts of this case, but enters upon a
lengthy disquisition as to what combination of
safeguards are required to satisfy due process in
hypothetical cases not before the Court. I therefore do
not join Part IV.
As the Court's opinion points out, the Connecticut
statute allows attachment not merely for a creditor's
claim, but for a tort claim of assault and battery; it
affords no opportunity for a predeprivation hearing; it
contains no requirement that there be "exigent
circumstances," such as an effort on the part of the
defendant to conceal assets; no bond is required from
the plaintiff; and the property attached is one in which
the plaintiff has no pre-existing interest. The Court's
opinion [501 U.S. 27] is, in my view, ultimately correct
when it bases its holding of unconstitutionality of the
Connecticut statute as applied here on our cases of
Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp. of Bay View, 395 U.S.
337 (1969); Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U.S. 67 (1972),
Mitchell v. W. T. Grant Co., 416 U.S. 600 (1974), and
North Georgia Finishing, Inc. v. Di-Chem, Inc., 419
U.S. 601 (1975). But I do not believe that the result
follows so inexorably as the Court's opinion suggests.
All of the cited cases dealt with personalty—bank
deposits or chattels —and each involved the physical
seizure of the property itself, so that the defendant was
deprived of its use. These cases, which represented
something of a revolution in the jurisprudence of
procedural due process, placed substantial limits on the
methods by which creditors could obtain a lien on the
assets of a debtor prior to judgment. But in all of them
the debtor was deprived of the use and possession of the
property. In the present case, on the other hand,
Connecticut's prejudgment attachment on real property
statute, which secures an incipient lien for the plaintiff,
does not deprive the defendant of the use or possession
of the property.
The Court's opinion therefore breaks new ground, and I
would point out, more emphatically than the Court
does, the limits of today's holding. In Spielman-Fond,
Inc. v. Hanson's, Inc., 379 F.Supp. 997, 999 (Ariz. 1973),
the District Court held that the filing of a mechanics'
lien did not cause the deprivation of a significant
property interest of the owner. We summarily affirmed
that decision. 417 U.S. 901 (1974). Other courts have
read this summary affirmance to mean that the mere
imposition of a lien on real property, which does not
disturb the owner's use or enjoyment of the property, is
not a deprivation of property calling for procedural due
process safeguards. I agree with the Court, however,
that upon analysis the deprivation here is a significant
one, even though the owner remains in undisturbed
possession. "For a property owner like Doehr,
attachment ordinarily clouds title; impairs the ability to
sell or otherwise [501 U.S. 28] alienate the property;
taints any credit rating; reduces the chance of obtaining
a home equity loan or additional mortgage; and can
even place an existing mortgage in technical default
where there is an insecurity clause." Ante, at 11. Given
the elaborate system of title records relating to real
property which prevails in all of our States, a lienor need
not obtain possession or use of real property belonging
to a debtor in order to significantly impair its value to
him.
But in Spielman-Fond, Inc., supra, there was, as the
Court points out, ante, at 12, n. 4, an alternative basis
available to this Court for affirmance of that decision.
Arizona recognized a pre-existing lien in favor of
unpaid mechanics and materialmen who had
contributed labor or supplies which were incorporated
in improvements to real property. The existence of such
a lien upon the very property ultimately posted or
noticed distinguishes those cases from the present one,
where the plaintiff had no pre-existing interest in the
real property which he sought to attach. Materialman's
and mechanic's lien statutes award an interest in real
property to workers who have contributed their labor,
and to suppliers who have furnished material, for the
improvement of the real property. Since neither the
labor nor the material can be reclaimed once it has
become a part of the realty, this is the only method by
which workmen or small businessmen who have
contributed to the improvement of the property may be
given a remedy against a property owner who has
defaulted on his promise to pay for the labor and the
materials. To require any sort of a contested court
hearing or bond before the notice of lien takes effect
would largely defeat the purpose of these statutes.
Petitioners in their brief rely in part on our summary
affirmance in Bartlett v. Williams, 464 U.S. 801 (1983).
That case involved a lis pendens, in which the question
presented to this Court was whether such a procedure
could be valid when the only protection afforded to the
owner of land affected by the lis pendens was a
postsequestration hearing. [501 U.S. 29] A notice of lis
pendens is a well-established, traditional remedy
whereby a plaintiff (usually a judgment creditor) who
brings an action to enforce an interest in property to
which the defendant has title gives notice of the
pendency of such action to third parties; the notice
causes the interest which he establishes, if successful, to
relate back to the date of the filing of the lis pendens.
The filing of such notice will have an effect upon the
defendant's ability to alienate the property, or to obtain
additional security on the basis of title to the property,
but the effect of the lis pendens is simply to give notice
to the world of the remedy being sought in the lawsuit
itself. The lis pendens itself creates no additional right in
the property on the part of the plaintiff, but simply
allows third parties to know that a lawsuit is pending in
which the plaintiff is seeking to establish such a right.
Here, too, the fact that the plaintiff already claims an
interest in the property which he seeks to enforce by a
lawsuit distinguishes this class of cases from the
Connecticut attachment employed in the present case.
Today's holding is a significant development in the law;
the only cases dealing with real property cited in the
Court's opinion, Peralta v. Heights Medical Center, Inc.,
485 U.S. 80, 85 (1988), and Hodge v. Muscatine County,
196 U.S. 276, 281 (1905), arose out of lien foreclosure
sales in which the question was whether the owner was
entitled to proper notice. The change is dramatically
reflected when we compare today's decision with the
almost casual statement of Justice Holmes, writing for a
unanimous Court in Coffin Brothers & Co. v. Bennett,
277 U.S. 29, 31 (1928):
"[N]othing is more common than to allow parties alleging
themselves to be creditors to establish in advance by attachment a
lien dependent for its effect upon the result of the suit."
The only protection accorded to the debtor in that case
was the right to contest his liability in a postdeprivation
proceeding.
[501 U.S. 30] It is both unwise and unnecessary, I
believe, for the plurality to proceed, as it does in Part IV,
from its decision of the case before it to discuss abstract
and hypothetical situations not before it. This is
especially so where we are dealing with the Due Process
Clause which, as the Court recognizes, "`"unlike some
legal rules, is not a technical conception with a fixed
content unrelated to time, place and circumstances,"'"
ante, at 10. And it is even more true in a case involving
constitutional limits on the methods by which the States
may transfer or create interests in real property; in other
areas of the law, dicta may do little damage, but those
who insure titles or write title opinions often do not
enjoy the luxury of distinguishing detween dicta and
holding.
The two elements of due process with which the Court
concerns itself in Part IV—the requirements of a bond
and of "exigent circumstances" — prove to be upon
analysis so vague that the discussion is not only
unnecessary, but not particularly useful. Unless one
knows what the terms and conditions of a bond are to
be, the requirement of a "bond" in the abstract means
little. The amount to be secured by the bond and the
conditions of the bond are left unaddressed —is there to
be liability on the part of a plaintiff if he is ultimately
unsuccessful in the underlying lawsuit, or is it instead to
be conditioned on some sort of good-faith test? The
"exigent circumstances" referred to by the Court are
admittedly equally vague; nonresidency appears to be
enough in some States, an attempt to conceal assets is
required in others, an effort to flee the jurisdiction in
still others. We should await concrete cases which
present questions involving bonds and exigent
circumstances before we attempt to decide when and if
the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
requires them as prerequisites for a lawful attachment