Preface
This appeal tests the truthfulness of the old saw "Finders
keepers, losers weepers." Our assay reveals the saw to be
toothless, its mettle an alloy of "hot air," folklore, and
wishful thinking.
The Facts
The brothers Leonard and Bernard Kapiloff are
philatelists. In approximately 1976 they purchased two
sets of stamps from Robert A. Siegel, Inc., a New York
corporation dealing in postage stamps. That the stamps
are of considerable value is reflected by their advertised
price, $150,400.00. As far as the brothers knew, those
stamps remained in their possession until February 1,
1983. On that date Bernard Kapiloff saw an
advertisement, in a nationally circulated catalogue,
offering the stamps for sale. He contacted the alleged
owner, Robert L. Ganter, and demanded return of the
stamps. The demand was refused. The Kapiloffs notified
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and that agency
took physical possession of the stamps from J. & H.
Stolow, another New York stamp dealer. The stamps
had been consigned to Stolow by Ganter, who asserted
that they were his property.
Ganter related in a deposition that he acquired the
stamps by finding them in a dresser he had purchased
for thirty dollars in a used furniture store. The purchase
was made, according to Ganter, in "the spring or
summer of 1979 or 1980." When he "took the drawers
out and started spraying [them] for roaches," Ganter
"found a bunch of newspapers, magazines and the
stamps." The stamps were in a glassine envelope and
"looked very official" because they were accompanied by
a certificate with "maybe a gold label on it." No appraisal
of the stamps was sought by Ganter at that time because
he had "no particular interest in the stamps."
Subsequently, he visited someone in New York City
who suggested the stamps be appraised. At Thanksgiving
time 1982 Ganter took the stamps to the Stolow
Auction House and was told that they were "a rather
sensational find."
When Ganter refused the Kapiloffs' demand that he
return the stamps to them, they sued him and J. & H.
Stolow, Inc., in replevin in the District Court of
Maryland for Baltimore City. The action was removed
by Ganter to the Circuit Court for Baltimore City where
it was amended to include a count seeking a declaratory
judgment that the Kapiloffs were "the true owners of
the ... stamps."
Following a hearing, Judge Robert I.H. Hammerman entered
summary judgment in favor of the Kapiloffs on both counts.1
The Replevin Action
An action of replevin is designed to obtain possession of
personal property that is wrongfully detained by the
defendant. Shorter v. Dail, 122 Md. 101, 89 A. 329
(1913); Anderson v. Stewart, 108 Md. 340, 70 A. 228
(1908); Lamotte v. Wisner, 51 Md. 543 (1879);
Cumberland C. & I. Co. v. Tilghman, 13 Md. 74 (1859);
H. & I. Ginsberg, Pleading at Law in Maryland 34
(1937). Indubitably, the Kapiloffs had the right to assert
an action in replevin since they averred that they owned
the stamps and that Ganter and Stolow had
unauthorized possession of the stamps when the action
was filed. Shorter v. Dail, supra; Rogers v. Roberts, 58
Md. 519 (1882).
Where, however, the goods the plaintiff seeks to
recover are in custodia legis, no replevin lies. Good v.
Board of Police Com'rs of City of Baltimore, 137 Md.
192, 112 A. 294 (1920); Glenn v. Gill, 2 Md. 1 (1852);
Cromwell v. Owings, 7 H. & J. 44 (1826). The stamps
were recovered by the F.B.I. from Stolow. Under what
authority that federal agency took possession of the
stamps is not clear. There does not appear from the
record before us to have been any judicial process issued
that would authorize the F.B.I. to take physical
possession of the stamps. Perhaps the Bureau decided
that the stamps, if stolen, were evidence. Of course, the
agency might have considered that, inasmuch as
ownership of the stamps was subject to judicial
determination, prudence dictated taking possession of
the stamps so as to prevent someone's having to search
for them later. Whatever the F.B.I.'s reasons for taking
possession of the stamps, the taking does not seem to
have been by way of a writ or a search and seizure
warrant. Mere possession by the F.B.I. does not mean
that agency is holding the stamps in custodia legis.
There was in the instant case no legally sufficient
evidence for the trial court to find that the stamps were
in custodia legis, and it did not err in rejecting that
defense argument.
"Finders Keepers"
Having determined that the Kapiloffs could maintain an
action of replevin and that the stamps were not in
custodia legis, we turn now to Ganter's "FindersKeepers
Theory" of ownership.
The first reference that we have discovered to the adage
about "finders keepers" appears in the writings of
Plautus who penned in Trinummis 1. 63 (c. 194 B.C.),
"Habeas ut nanctus: He keeps that finds." In Charles
Reade's It is Never Too Late to Mend, Ch. 65 (1856), the
saying was reported as "Losers seekers, finders keepers."
That expression has evolved into the more familiar
"Finders keepers, losers weepers." Whatever its origin,
the maxim is legally unsound.
Historically, since at least March 25, 1634, the law of
Maryland has been that he who finds lost personal
property holds it against all the world except the rightful
owner.
Chief Justice Coke in Isaack v. Clark, 2 Bylstrode 306
(1615), wrote:
"[W]hen a man doth finde goods, it hath been said, and so
commonly held, that if he doth dis-possess himself of them, by this
he shall be discharged, but this is not so, as appears by 12 E. 4 fol.
13. for he which findes goods, if bound to answer him for them
who hath the property; and if he deliver them over to any one,
unless it be unto the right owner, he shall be charged for them, for
at the first it is in his election, whether he will take them or not into
his custody, but when he hath them, one onely hath then right unto
them, and therefore he ought to keep them safely; if a man
therefore which findes goods, if he be wise, he will then search out
the right owner of them, and so deliver them unto him...."
Isaack, however, is not generally recognized as the
premier authority dealing with ownership of lost
property. Usually that status is afforded to England's
Chief Justice Pratt for his opinion in Armory v.
Delamirie, 1 Strange 505 (1722). There a chimney sweep
found a jewel and took it to a goldsmith. The jewel was
delivered into the hands of an apprentice who took out
the stones. The chimney sweep was offered a pittance
for the socket minus the stones. The sweep sued the
goldsmith. In allowing recovery from the goldsmith of
the value of the gems, the court articulated the legal
precept that the finder of lost property, while not
acquiring an absolute ownership in it, does,
nevertheless, hold the property "against all but the
rightful owner...."
Even though Maryland was not settled at the time of the
Isaack's decision, it was the law of the proprietory
province from the time of its founding. Armory,
likewise, was binding in the courts of Maryland. With
the advent of the Revolutionary War and subsequent
adoption of a State constitution, Maryland carried into
its State law those laws of England which existed on July
4, 1776. There they remain except where they have been
changed by the Legislature. Md. Declaration of Rights
Art. 5.2 To date the General Assembly has not
overruled, amended, altered, or changed, by one iota,
the holdings of Isaack and Armory. Those decisions
remain the law of this State.3
Maryland is not alone in following Armory. Our sister
states that have considered the issue also follow Armory.
See e.g. Tatum v. Sharpless, 6 Philadelphia Reports 18
(1865); Sovern v. Yoran, 16 Or. 269, 20 P. 100 (1888);
Favorite v. Miller, 176 Conn. 310, 407 A.2d 974 (1978);
Bowen v. Sullivan, 62 Ind. 281, 30 Am.Rep. 172 (1878);
Durfee v. Jones, 11 R.I. 588, 23 Am.Rep. 528 (1877);
Deaderick v. Oulds, 86 Tenn. 14, 5 S.W. 487 (1887). See
also Preston Coal & Improv. Co. v. Raven Run Coal Co.,
200 F. 465, 468 (3rd Cir.1912); 1 Am.Jur.2d,
Abandoned, Lost & Unclaimed Property, ยง 19; R.
Brown, The Law of Personal Property (Raerschenbush,
3rd Ed. 1975), ยง 3.1.
Generally, it may be said that the finder of lost property
holds it as a bailee for the true owner. As to all others,
the finder's rights "are tantamount to ownership, giving
him the right to possess and hold the found goods." Id.
In the matter sub judice, Ganter, having found the
stamps, had the right to exercise ownership over them
against the whole world except the true owners, who
were determined by Judge Hammerman to be the
brothers Kapiloff. Once the true owners were
determined, Ganter's possessory interest ceased.
Summary Judgment
Maryland Rule 2-501(a) provides in pertinent part: "Any
party may file at any time a motion for summary
judgment on all or part of an action on the ground that
there is no genuine dispute as to any material fact and
that party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law...."
Pursuant to the rule the court may summarily determine
whether there is a bona fide issue between the parties
making a full trial appropriate. Wolfe v. Lamar &
Wallace, Inc., 261 Md. 174, 274 A.2d 121 (1971). If the
pleadings, depositions, admissions, and affidavits
demonstrate that there is no genuine dispute as to any
material fact, the movant is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. Delia v. Berkey, 41 Md.App. 47, 395 A.2d
1189 (1978), aff'd287 Md. 302, 413 A.2d 170 (1980).
Ganter asserts that the judge erred in granting summary
judgment in favor of the Kapiloffs because there were
genuine disputes of material fact.
Ganter is mistaken. The disputes he perceives as
genuine and material are in actuality picayune and
immaterial. We refer to but a few of them:
To overcome the Kapiloffs' assertion of ownership,
Ganter retorts that either of the brothers may have sold
the stamps without the other's knowledge. That
possibility, he avers, is sufficient to carry the question of
ownership to a jury. We disagree. As we see it, Ganter's
"dispute" is but sheer speculation entitled to no
consideration.
Ganter alleges that because he says he possessed the
stamps for a few years there is an inference that he
owned them. We have already seen that the law is to the
contrary, excepting, of course, where there is a
possibility of adverse possession, which is not here
applicable.
Another "dispute" advanced by Ganter is that the stamps
may not be the same ones that the Kapiloffs own. That
theory, while interesting, lacks support in the record,
particularly when the Kapiloffs maintain that the
particular stamps in question are theirs and an expert,
Robert A. Siegel, who sold the stamps to the Kapiloffs,
supports their claim of ownership. Although an expert
employed by Ganter opined that there were thousands
of stamps circulated, his statement does not in any
manner contest that of Siegel or the Kapiloffs that the
stamps found by Ganter were the precise stamps owned
by the Kapiloffs.
Ganter hypothesizes that because the Kapiloffs failed to
insure their stamp collection they were not the true
owners. The logic of that hypothesis totally and
completely eludes us. It may have been an unwise
business practice not to insure the stamps, but the lack
of insurance is irrelevant to ownership.
Ganter has advanced what appear to be ideas, notions,
concepts, and fantasies of what might have been.
However they are called, they are not genuine disputes
of material facts.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.