We are confronted at the outset by the inescapable facts
that defendant Goodwin is a prosecutor and that the
indictment made the subject of this civil suit for
damages occurred in the courtroom, the native habitat
of judges, jurors, prosecutors and witnesses — all of
whom having, and from time immemorial having had,
absolute immunity from civil suit as essential
participants in the judicial process. The normal role of
the Prosecutor in the courtroom is as Advocate; his
actions are those of a spokesman advocating the cause of
his client, the government, state or federal. In this
particular case Goodwin perhaps was, for a moment at
least, also cast in another role, that of Witness; his
action was to answer a specific question of the court.
The plaintiff claims that answer was false, and now sues
Goodwin for perjury. Perjury is the act of testifying
falsely. It is not the act of "administering" or
"investigating" anything.
The majority painstakingly reviews the recent decisions
on prosecutorial immunity, particularly Mr. Justice
Powell's opinion for the Supreme Court in Imbler v.
Pachtman, 1 which accord absolute immunity to the
prosecutor, not because of his "official status,"2 but
because of "the nature of the official behavior"3 in his
role essential to the judicial process. The cases cited
universally hold that the prosecutor while functioning
as an advocate (and thus as part of the judicial process) is
entitled to absolute immunity; they also either hold, or
leave open the question as to exactly where the line is to
be drawn (as Justice Powell did in Imbler),4 that
"administrative" or "investigative" [569 F.2d 30] duties
of the prosecutor are entitled only to a qualified
immunity. The majority opinion agrees.5
Thus the majority finds it necessary to take Goodwin
completely outside the role of prosecutor connected
with the judicial function. In the face of the undeniable
facts of this case — that Goodwin was in the courtroom,
before a sitting judge, appearing as counsel of record in a
judicial proceeding, actively performing those duties
associated with trial advocacy, when he answered a
question from the trial judge — the majority finds that
his answer to the question was not, in the language of
Imbler, an "integral part of the judicial process."6 The
starting point for the majority's analysis is the statement
in Imbler that "We recognize that the duties of the
prosecutor in his role as advocate for the State involve
actions preliminary to the initiation of a prosecution
and actions apart from the courtroom."7 The Supreme
Court goes on to describe what these actions are, and
concludes, "At some point, and with respect to some
decisions, the prosecutor no doubt functions as an
administrator rather than as an officer of the court."8
The Court in Imbler thus differentiated between the
prosecutor functioning "as an administrator" and "as an
officer of the court." On the former the Court reserved
decision as to the immunity accorded; on the latter,
when the prosecutor is functioning "as an officer of the
court," the Supreme Court unequivocally held the
prosecutor has absolute immunity.9 On the facts of
Goodwin's case, can the majority deny that he was
functioning "as an officer of the court"? Goodwin was in
the courtroom before the U.S. District Judge as lead
counsel for the United States. Could there be a more
classic role "as an officer of the court"?
This points up the majority's startling weakness: There
is not one word in Imbler, or in any of the numerous
other cases cited by the majority, which describes an
action similar to that of Goodwin here as being outside
the prosecutor's (or witness's) absolute immunity. The
only references in Imbler and all the other cases cited
talk of "investigative" or "administrative" tasks inherent
in the prosecutor's usual job as being outside absolute
immunity.
My colleagues have apparently found no case which
cites, by way of holding or dicta, any action by a
prosecutor inside the courtroom as being outside his
role of prosecutor.10 Goodwin's actions were not
"actions [569 F.2d 31] preliminary to the initiation of a
prosecution,"11 nor were they "actions apart from the
courtroom";12 he was right in the middle of the
courtroom and right in the middle of a grand jury
proceeding, the time-honored method for "initiating a
prosecution."13 The grand jury is an arm of the court.
Goodwin was functioning "as an officer of the court."
Goodwin's "activities were intimately associated with
the judicial phase of the criminal process, and thus were
functions to which the reasons for absolute immunity
apply with full force."14
To my mind Goodwin was a prosecutor functioning "as
an officer of the court," and entitled to the prosecutor's
absolute immunity under Imbler v. Pachtman. Yet it is
undeniable that Goodwin was sworn as a witness, for a
brief moment took the witness stand, and answered one
question. My colleagues hold that after Goodwin took
the oath as a witness he was acting as an investigator —
a strange conclusion — and, after he took the oath as a
witness (in addition to his oaths as attorney and
prosecutor) he ceased to be "an officer of the court" — to
my mind an equally strange conclusion.
Both of these conclusions are necessary if the majority is
to package Goodwin as an "investigator" or
"administrator," for it is only if he can be so labelled that
he can be deprived of the absolute immunity of the
prosecutor under Imbler and countless other cases. That
this is a strained and distorted result should be apparent,
as it is so obvious that if Goodwin was not functioning
as a prosecutor in his role "as an officer of the court,"
then he was functioning as a witness — and each is
entitled to absolute immunity.
[569 F.2d 32] It thus becomes necessary in these
opinions to treat both prosecutorial and witness
immunity.15 I shall first turn to the absolute immunity
of the prosecutor as analyzed and affirmed by the
Supreme Court in Imbler v. Pachtman (1976), then to
the absolute immunity of the witness. To some extent
the discussion must interweave, for both are part of the
seamless web of immunity held for centuries to be
essential to the functioning of an effective judiciary.
I. PROSECUTORIAL IMMUNITY "AS AN OFFICER
OF THE COURT" WHOSE "ACTIVITIES WERE
INTIMATELY ASSOCIATED WITH THE JUDICIAL
PHASE OF THE CRIMINAL PROCESS"
We are all agreed that Goodwin's action was taken
within the scope of his duty; it is further the case, I
submit, that his action involved the exercise of
significant discretion.16 He is thus entitled to some sort
of [569 F.2d 33] immunity protection, qualified or
absolute. "The procedural difference between the
absolute and qualified immunities is important. An
absolute immunity defeats the suit at the outset, so long
as the official's actions were within the scope of the
immunity. The fate of an official with qualified
immunity depends upon the circumstances and
motivations of his actions, as established by the evidence
at trial."17
The decision whether qualified or absolute immunity is
appropriate involves a balancing of the interests which
would be benefited and impaired by application of either
of the two doctrines. The decisions of the Supreme
Court which have made this choice have weighed the
incremental loss in litigant rights and remedial relief
against the enhancement of governmental functioning
resulting from the absolute as opposed to the qualified
immunity. As a result of this balancing the Court has
devised rules of absolute or qualified immunity for
various classes of officials, as defined by function.18
Our role in applying these rules, where the Court has
devised them, is to make a proper characterization of the
function being performed by the official in question.
Our role, however, is not to engage in a particularistic
rebalancing of all the relevant policies to determine
whether absolute or qualified immunity is appropriate
in this case. Our analysis instead is functional: was this
action undertaken in the prosecutor's capacity as an
officer of the court, or, put another way, a government
advocate in a courtroom setting? If this prosecutor
should be so characterized, then he is entitled to
absolute immunity under Imbler v. Pachtman. In Imbler
the Court itself balanced the competing policies and
mandated absolute immunity for the prosecutor in his
[569 F.2d 34] role, very broadly conceived, as courtroom
advocate.
A. Imbler v. Pachtman — Balancing of the Interests Held
to Require Absolute Immunity for the Prosecutor.
In order to make a more informed application of the
Imbler rule, it may be helpful to set out the policies
which underpin it. While our role, as noted, is not to
make a de novo balancing of these policies in this case,
an understanding and appreciation of the policies may
contribute to a proper characterization of the
prosecutor's protected role under Imbler. At the outset
the Imbler Court recognized that § 1983, although it
creates a cause of action for deprivation of constitutional
rights, does not constitute a flat bar to immunity
doctrine,19 and proceeded to consider the other factors,
which, under its balancing approach, related to the
choice of qualified or absolute immunity.
Recognizing the prosecutor's absolute immunity at
common law from actions for malicious prosecution,
the Court found equally applicable to actions under §
1983 the several rationales for this common law
immunity.20 Most importantly these included the
"concern that harassment by unfounded litigation would
cause a deflection of the prosecutor's energies from his
public duties, and the possibility that he would shade his
decisions instead of exercising the independence of
judgment required by his public trust."21 The Court
noted that these twin hazards of diversion of energies
and biasing of decision-making are, for several reasons,
especially acute in the case of a prosecutor. Acting as he
does under serious constraints of time and information,
a prosecutor would "face greater difficulty in meeting
the standards of qualified immunity than other
executive or administrative officials."22 Further, the
sheer number of decisions which a prosecutor must
make that "could engender colorable claims of
constitutional deprivation" means that a demonstration
of good faith in every case "could impose unique and
intolerable burdens . . . ."23
The net harm of allowing only a qualified immunity in
the performance of prosecutorial functions was not
confined, therefore, to the "substantial danger of liability
even to honest prosecutors,"24 or even to the
expenditure of great time and effort in defending such
suits. Most seriously, the denial of absolute immunity
would adversely affect "the functioning of the criminal
justice system as a whole." "[T]riers of fact . . . often
would be denied relevant evidence" by the creation of a
systematic bias in the prosecutor against incriminating
evidence of sufficiently uncertain pedigree as to support
a colorable cause of action.25 And post-conviction
review procedures might well be biased in quite another
way, against the convicted person, by "knowledge that a
post-trial decision in favor of the accused might result in
the prosecutor being called upon to respond in damages
for his error or mistaken judgment."26
As final support for its holding that prosecutors are
absolutely immune "in initiating a prosecution and in
presenting the State's case,"27 the Court noted that the
unavailability of suit under § 1983 for this category of
cases "does not leave the public powerless to deter
misconduct or to punish that which occurs" — for "a
prosecutor stands perhaps unique, among officials
whose acts could deprive persons of constitutional
rights, in his amenability to professional discipline by an
association of his peers."28 As a deterrent of even greater
weight, [569 F.2d 35] "[t]his Court has never suggested
that the policy considerations which compel civil
immunity for certain governmental officials also place
them beyond the reach of the criminal law."29 Taking all
these policies into account, the Court concluded, on
balance, that for § 1983 damage suits, as at common law,
a prosecutor's actions "intimately associated with the
judicial phase of the criminal process" were entitled to
absolute immunity.30
B. Application of Immunity Doctrine to Goodwin.
We thus come to the question of whether defendant
Goodwin's sworn testimony, to the effect that none
among the witness group represented by counsel was a
Government informant, falls within the absolute
prosecutorial immunity from damage actions established
by the Supreme Court. As developed in the
introduction, it would surely seem on its face that
Goodwin's action during grand jury proceedings in
answering a question from the judge in his capacity as
lead prosecutor was action taken as an "officer of the
court."31 This was action within his scope of duty which
called for the exercise of discretion in its performance,
precisely the type of "quasi-judicial" function within the
absolute protection of Imbler.32
[569 F.2d 36] In order to divest Goodwin of his
protected prosecutorial function, the majority discusses
at length numerous cases contrasting the prosecutor's
advocacy role with his duties related to investigation
and administration. By page ___ of 186 U.S.App.D.C., at
p. 21 of 569 F.2d the majority is ready to state:
. . . [W]e believe that appellant's false statement to the federal
district court in Florida is properly characterized as an act of
investigation rather than advocacy. . . . [A]ppellant's alleged perjury
bears no relation whatever to the advocate's role as conceived by
the Supreme Court in Imbler.33
Indeed?
This rather extraordinary characterization is not
supported by the "investigatory" cases cited by the
majority. This characterization, moreover, rests upon a
clear misreading of how the Imbler rule should be
applied and upon an overly narrow reading of its
conception of advocacy. These points will be developed
in order below. Finally, as I will explain in more detail in
Part I, C, infra, the attempted division of the
prosecutor's function with the grand jury into
"investigative" and "advocacy" roles is legally inaccurate
and practically unworkable.
1. The characterization of Goodwin's action as
"investigatory" is unprecedented and unjustified.34 As a
matter of case law, including all the cases cited by the
majority, courts have characterized as "investigatory"
those actions outside the courtroom setting where the
prosecutor is acting in a capacity akin to the police
officer in his efforts, for example, to obtain a
confession,35 or to make arrests,36 or to execute a search
warrant.37 Indeed, the Imbler Court [569 F.2d 37] cited
to the cases of policemen's functions, all involving
activities apart from the courtroom, to show what it
meant by "investigative" activity by prosecutors.38 The
majority's view of this courtroom activity as
"investigatory" under Imbler is thus absolutely novel
under the case law.
The majority's characterization, moreover, is not
justified by the reasoning of the cases cited by Imbler. In
Hampton v. City of Chicago, 39 for example, Judge (now
Justice) Stevens recognized that since a police officer is
entitled to only qualified immunity for his police
actions, then a prosecutor performing the functions of a
police officer should also be accorded only qualified
immunity because "it seems neither appropriate nor
justifiable that, for the same act, immunity should
protect the one and not the other." This concern for
symmetry of treatment appears as a critical policy for
the majority as well: "Regardless of his official status, a
prosecutor functioning primarily as an investigator
should be accorded only the qualified immunity typically
conferred on other investigative officers."40
In the instant case, however, a fair application of
symmetry calls for absolute immunity for the
prosecutor's courtroom statement. Goodwin need not
be given qualified immunity because a policeman, if a
witness, would only get qualified immunity; on the
contrary, in my view a policeman functioning as a
witness in a manner similar to Goodwin would be
entitled to absolute immunity. The majority has not
cited — and cannot cite — any case in which an official,
as a witness, has been denied absolute immunity from a
civil damage suit. See Part II, infra. Indeed, if the
majority were to afford a policeman, qua witness,
absolute immunity but deny it to this prosecutor, giving
a similar answer, then Goodwin would be denied
absolute immunity solely because of his official status,
surely an impermissible result. If a policeman should
have absolute immunity here, functioning as a witness,
so too should Goodwin, functioning as an officer of the
court.
Besides the concern for symmetry of treatment in the
performance of similar tasks, the other basic rationale in
the "investigatory" cases is that the prosecutor acting
like a policeman outside the court should be afforded
only qualified immunity because there is no other
appropriate way for there to be "judicial surveillance" of
this type of executive action. Apton v. Wilson.41 Put the
other way, as Judge Leventhal did in Apton, the
prosecutor acting within the confines of the court is
entitled to absolute immunity as a "quasi-judicial officer"
because "the circumstances typically provide alternative
instruments of the judicial branch to check misconduct
— the discretion of the grand jury, the procedures of a
trial, and the potential sanction of discipline imposed by
the court itself."42
Judged by the reasoning of Apton, it should seem that
Goodwin is clearly entitled to absolute immunity, as his
allegedly false statement was made directly under the
control of the trial judge, a classic instance of "judicial
surveillance." The majority, however, seeks to
distinguish the reasoning of Apton because, it says, the
circumstances of this case did not in fact provide for
careful scrutiny of Goodwin's action. See at ___ _ ___ of
186 U.S.App.D.C., at 24-25 of 569 F.2d. To begin with,
the language from Apton does not suggest in any way
that absolute immunity for a "quasi-judicial officer"
should turn on a particularistic inquiry into whether in
fact there was a full and fair "judicial surveillance."43
Instead, [569 F.2d 38] it is the opportunity and potential
for "judicial surveillance" that justifies absolute
immunity for prosecutorial activity in a courtroom
setting. That the majority is misreading the nature of
absolute "quasi-judicial" immunity will become apparent
from a close comparison of its rationale with Imbler.
2. Two of the reasons that the majority gives for why
absolute immunity is not appropriate in this case are
based upon a clear misreading of Imbler. The majority
asserts, first of all, that there has yet been no apparent
official inquiry into this alleged misbehavior, and,
secondly, that the alleged perjury here was insulated
from probing examination and jury appraisal. As I will
show, these are not material factors under Imbler, even
assuming their accuracy, as to whether this prosecutor
was acting as an "officer of the court."
Consider first the issue of whether there has been any
professional or judicial inquiry into Goodwin's action.
In striking the balance in favor of absolute immunity,
the Imbler Court44 regarded as significant factors "[the]
amenability [of a prosecutor] to professional discipline
by an association of his peers" and the possibility as well
of "criminal punishment of a prosecutor." The existence
of these checks, the Court emphasized, thus "does not
leave the public powerless to deter misconduct or to
punish that which occurs."45 In this case the majority
holds that because there has been no professional or
judicial inquiry after all this time, it is appropriate to
allow an inquiry now in this suit for damages. This
outcome rests on a misunderstanding by the majority
about the nature of the Supreme Court's analysis in
Imbler. The Court was weighing the general policies
behind absolute as opposed to qualified immunity in
order to arrive at the functional rule of absolute
immunity for the prosecutor in his role as advocate. By
weighing in the balance the amenability of a prosecutor
to alternative sanctions, the Court did not mean that the
availability of absolute immunity from civil damage suits
in each case should turn on a particularistic
determination of whether the prosecutor's act in
question had otherwise been the subject of a disciplinary
inquiry. Indeed, the Imbler Court did, in fact, grant
absolute immunity to the individual prosecutor, Mr.
Richard Pachtman, without anywhere indicating
whether he had been subject to disciplinary inquiry in
the many years between the trial in 1961 and the Court's
award of absolute immunity in 1976. Similarly, it is
immaterial whether Goodwin's action has in fact been
subject to disciplinary review. Rather, what the Imbler
Court emphasized is that there had existed the
possibility of alternative checks, citing to the relevant
sections of the ABA Code of Professional Responsibility
and the California Penal Code. So too here, there is no
question that there has existed the potential for
professional, criminal or judicial inquiry into his action,
thus bringing him within the analysis of Imbler.46
As a matter of immunity doctrine, moreover, there is
real wisdom in not having the choice between
immunities turn on a determination of whether this
action in particular was subject to disciplinary review. A
fair assessment of this factor may have to involve
further proceedings and findings, a possibility which
undercuts the purpose of absolute immunity, to provide
protection at the outset from trial and liability. In this
[569 F.2d 39] case, for example, it is not altogether clear
that there was no apparent official inquiry into the
seeming misstatement, as the majority asserts.47 At the
criminal trial of appellees, the trial court held an
evidentiary hearing before admitting the informant,
Poe, as a witness. Based on evidence received at the
hearing, and over the objections of appellees that their
Fifth Amendment right to Due Process and their Sixth
Amendment right to counsel had been violated, the trial
court permitted Poe to testify. Was the court's ruling at
all based upon its view that Goodwin's answer was not
perjury or did not violate the Constitution? The record
in the criminal case is not before us and so the question
must go unanswered.
Yet if the trial court did face there the issue of the
alleged perjury — which is very plausible since the
appellees here were the defendants there — then the
majority may be unfairly and inaccurately assuming that
there has been no official inquiry. For a more precise
assessment of its assumption, the majority would have
to have a remand on this issue, to allow for further
proceedings, all this taking place, I repeat, even before
the choice of immunities is made. And yet, without a
remand — on whether there had been an official inquiry
at the criminal trial into the alleged perjury — the
majority may be denying Goodwin absolute immunity
on the basis of an unfair and inaccurate assumption, as
well as one that is immaterial.
Furthermore, the majority overlooks the important
possibility that the lack of any official inquiry may itself
reflect some oversight by other parties. My thought is
that the Department of Justice and the District Judge are
well aware of the facts on the merits of this case,48 and
that in their opinion the claim of plaintiff Briggs has no
merit, hence no action has been taken. It is worth noting
also that since the courtroom incident we have had two
Presidents and several Attorneys General, of different
political persuasions. How does the majority take into
account the possible scrutiny by all these people, short of
a formal "official inquiry," and their possible judgment
that action against Goodwin was not warranted? If
Goodwin is to be denied absolute immunity because
nobody has reviewed his alleged misbehavior, then the
majority must not totally overlook, as it does, the
important possibility that the relevant parties have
exercised some oversight and have decided against
further inquiry.
The short of it is that it is unwise to make absolute
immunity turn on whether there was in fact alternative
review of the incident in question. Such an inquiry, as
demonstrated by this case, may raise evidentiary and
other issues that must be resolved even before the
choice of immunities can be made. The greater the
number of issues that are injected into this choice,
beyond the necessary issues of scope of duty and
discretionary act, the more the protection of absolute
immunity — the dismissal of a suit at the outset — is
eroded. It was thus very appropriate for the Imbler
Court not to consider whether that prosecutor had been
called to answer for his alleged courtroom misdeeds. We
should, and must, follow their example: it is immaterial
whether there was ever an "official inquiry" into
Goodwin's alleged perjury.
The other argument of the majority is that because
Goodwin's statement was "insulat[ed]" from appraisal
by the jury and further inquiry by the appellees, it is
inappropriate [569 F.2d 40] to accord absolute immunity
in this case.49 Once again, this outcome rests upon a
misreading of Imbler. As mentioned earlier,50 Justice
White in a separate opinion argued that there should be
only qualified immunity for the unconstitutional
withholding of information from the court. When a
prosecutor suppresses evidence, Justice White
contended, it is, by definition, not subject to the scrutiny
of the judicial process; thus, there is "no way to prevent
or correct the constitutional violation."51 Note the
similarity to the majority's view that absolute immunity
is inappropriate here. For example, the majority points
out that "appellees and their counsel were required to
accept appellant's representation on faith."52 which
meant, in Justice White's terms, that there was "no way
to prevent or correct the constitutional violation."53
The short answer to the majority's view that Goodwin's
"insulat[ed]" answer loses absolute immunity is that the
Imbler Court expressly rejected Justice White's separate
view that the total suppression of evidence warranted
only qualified immunity.54 Thus, under Imbler it is
immaterial to the choice of immunities whether
Goodwin's allegedly false statement during judicial
proceedings was not adequately tested by crossexamination
or by jury appraisal.
Moreover, viewing this case in terms of the suppression
of evidence, the Imbler Court's rejection of Justice
White's separate approach may be said to settle and
control this case. One of the policies justifying absolute
prosecutorial immunity is that otherwise "the triers of
fact in criminal cases often would be denied relevant
evidence."55 By rejecting Justice White's view that an
unconstitutional withholding should not warrant
absolute immunity, the Imbler Court was essentially
saying that in all the decisions about presenting evidence
to the court the prosecutor would have absolute
immunity. This would include decisions to present
evidence of dubious reliability as well as decisions not to
present particular evidence at all. In these terms, what
Goodwin allegedly did, in essence, was decide not to
present the court with the evidentiary fact that there
was a government informant among the witnesses.
Since this decision entailed an element of judgment
(giving the framing of the question from the trial court),
it is a decision about presenting evidence, in this case
from himself as witness and counsel, that is basically the
subject of this suit.
Imbler afforded protection for the full range of decisions
about presenting — or withholding — evidence. Once
again, we should, and must, follow its guidance: it is
immaterial whether Goodwin's decision, to withhold
evidence, was shielded from cross-examination, or the
other "corrective" aspects of the trial process.
3. Central to the majority's conclusion denying absolute
immunity to this prosecutor is its view that his "alleged
perjury bears no relation whatever to the advocate's role
as conceived by the Supreme Court in Imbler."56 As
discussed above, this conclusion disregards whether his
alleged perjury bears a relation to his role as an officer of
the court (which he may be, even though not an
"advocate" in the most narrow sense) under Imbler or to
his role as witness, both of which roles are entitled, I
submit, to absolute immunity. But even considering
solely the advocacy role for the moment, the majority
finds no relation to advocacy only by adopting a much
more narrow view of the advocate's role than was [569
F.2d 41] conceived and applied in Imbler. If the
advocate's role as defined in Imbler and the
circumstances of this case are properly understood,
Goodwin's response to the question may fairly be seen
as a necessary part of his advocate's role.
The Imbler Court meant for the advocate's role to be
read very broadly. Not only did Imbler go out of its way
to say in dicta that the role extended to "actions
preliminary to the initiation of a prosecution and
actions apart from the courtroom,"57 but also in
disposing of the case it found actions to be advocacy
which, at first glance, appeared more to be investigation.
Having already shown that the broad language of the
dicta appears to bring his alleged perjury within the
ambit of Imbler, 58 let us focus here on how the
treatment of the precise facts of Imbler also establishes
that the action of Goodwin comes within the broad
definition of advocacy.
The starting point for the relevant analysis is footnote
32 of Imbler, which discusses seemingly "investigative"
activity. Because of the importance of the footnote to
following the analysis, it is reproduced in full below in
the text. (Costello, a central character in the footnote,
was the primary identification witness at the trial of
Imbler).59
Both in his complaint in District Court and in his argument to us,
petitioner characterizes some of respondent's actions as "policerelated"
or investigative. Specifically, he points to a request by
respondent of the police during a courtroom recess that they hold
off questioning Costello about a pending bad-check charge until
after Costello had completed his testimony. Petitioner asserts that
this request was an investigative activity because it was a direction
to police officers engaged in the investigation of crime. Seen in its
proper light, however, respondent's request of the officers was an
effort to control the presentation of his witness' testimony, a task
fairly within his function as an advocate.
The action at issue in the above footnote was the
prosecutor's request of the police that at that time they
not question Costello, the prosecution's witness, about a
pending criminal charge. Ordinarily, requests and
directions about police interrogation would be
considered acts of investigation. However, the
prosecutor's request was deemed an act of advocacy in
Imbler because his concern about the interrogation was
that it might impair the remainder of Costello's
testimony. Following police interrogation, Costello
might be nervous, and a less effective witness. Or after
such interrogation, he might become less cooperative as
a government witness or even refuse to cooperate at all.
Applying this reasoning to the instant case, it also
appears that the act of claimed perjury should be taken
as advocacy. Given that the object of the asserted perjury
was to avoid disclosing the existence or identity of the
government agent, that meant, since the concealment
was accomplished, that the agent was able to appear at
trial as a witness — and did appear — without his
existence or identity known to the defendants
beforehand. As a result, the presentation of the witness's
testimony was very likely more effective, much as
Costello's testimony was possibly made more effective
due to the postponement of police interrogation. Seen
in this light, Goodwin's act of alleged perjury can be
taken as an effort to preserve the more effective use of a
witness at trial.60 As in Imbler, Goodwin's [569 F.2d 42]
act was even more clearly not removed from the judicial
process, being in court, relating to a grand jury
proceeding, and should be considered as relating to the
other advocacy duties of his grand jury function.
C. The Majority's Extraordinary Misconception of
theProsecutor's Role With the Grand Jury
After its discussion of cases making the distinction
between the advocacy role of the prosecutor and his
sometime "investigative" or "administrative" duties, the
majority opinion then develops the argument that
Goodwin's performance of his duties as a prosecutor
with the grand jury was in this case, although not
necessarily in other instances of his work with the grand
jury, properly characterized as "investigative" in nature
rather than being connected with his role as an
advocate. I respectfully suggest that the entire
development of this argument in the majority opinion is
founded on a total misapprehension of the relationship
of the prosecutor to the grand jury and a misconception
of the grand jury's role itself. The distinctions attempted
to be drawn are demonstrably legally incorrect and, to
anyone who has ever worked with a grand jury, totally
impossible to apply as a matter of practicality.
Since the exposition of the underlying rationale of the
majority on this point is spread over several pages, I
shall quote certain excerpts so that the majority
rationale will be unmistakably clear. "We are aware that
earlier cases in which prosecutorial behavior has been
termed investigative have involved factual situations
distinct from that currently before us. (P. ___ of 186
U.S.App.D.C., p. 23 of 569 F.2d) . . . [W]e think that, in
a real sense, this litigation concerns behavior more
plainly investigative than that encountered in some of
the earlier cases cited above. (P. ___ of 186
U.S.App.D.C., at p. 23 of 569 F.2d) . . . The grand jury
[in Goodwin's case] was to function in the first instance
as an investigative tool, rather than in its more familiar
guise as a deliberative body deciding whether to return
indictments for specific crimes on the basis of evidence
gathered and presented by a public prosecutor. (P. ___ of
186 U.S.App.D.C., p. 24 of 569 F.2d) . . . The ongoing
character of the grand jury process in this case helps to
convince us that appellant had embarked on what was
fundamentally a factfinding mission, and that his false
statement to the court, if such it was, was intended to
improve the prospects for that endeavor's success." (Pp.
___ _ ___ of 186 U.S.App.D.C., p. 24 of 569 F.2d)
(emphasis supplied).
The majority thus tries to divide grand jury functions
into "investigative" and "deliberative." There is that
distinction, but the way the majority defines and
separates it, it is completely erroneous and misleading
here. Let me see if I can dispel the confusion:
1. The grand jury does not have a "more familiar guise
as a deliberate body" and another role as "an
investigative tool." The grand jury ALWAYS has both
roles of hearing evidence (investigating) and then
deciding whether to return an indictment (deliberating).
2. The prosecutor's only role with the grand jury is
during the time that it is hearing evidence, i. e.,
investigating. His usual duty at that time is to
interrogate witnesses, much as he does in the
courtroom.
3. The prosecutor never has a role with the grand jury
while it is functioning as a "deliberative body." By law he
is excluded, as is everyone else, from the grand jury
during this time. Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
6(d). His presence or assistance to the grand jury during
the time it was functioning, in the words of my
colleagues, "in its more familiar guise as a deliberative
body," would be grounds for quashing an indictment.
[569 F.2d 43] 4. The majority deprives the prosecutor
here of his absolute immunity because he was
performing duties with the grand jury which was then
functioning "in the first instance as an investigative
tool," but they do not seem to realize that this is the only
role for the prosecutor with the grand jury. The
majority never presumes to exclude the prosecutor at all
times from his absolute immunity when he is working
with the grand jury. The opinion tacitly assumes that
the prosecutor, when working with the grand jury in
what the majority considers his normal prosecutorial
functions, is clothed with his usual absolute immunity as
a prosecutor, because they recognize a good part of the
prosecutor's duties is in assisting the grand jury, an arm
of the court. Certainly in performing this function the
prosecutor would, in the language of Imbler, be
functioning "as an officer of the court" whose "activities
were intimately associated with the judicial phase of the
criminal process." The majority itself states, "The cases
collected by appellant hold unanimously that a
prosecutor is entitled to absolute immunity for his
quasi-judicial activities. After Imbler, this joint is
incontestable." (P. ___ of 186 U.S.App.D.C., at 22 of 569
F.2d.)
5. What the majority is trying to do here is to make a
distinction between those cases brought before the
grand jury which require very little evidence, or very
little original evidence before the grand jury, as the basis
of an indictment, and those cases which require a great
deal of evidence, some of which may be heard by the
prosecutor for the first time. The majority seems to
think that, simply because the matters which were to be
heard by this particular grand jury in Florida were
estimated to require considerable time and perhaps to
consist of evidence not hitherto heard by the prosecutor
or anyone else, somehow the prosecutor was no longer
functioning in his same role. Necessarily, the majority
also tries to redraw the line between the grand jury's
roles of hearing evidence (investigation) and
deliberation (discussing and voting on indictments). The
majority does this by apparently classifying simple cases
with short routine presentations of evidence as being "in
[the grand jury's] more familiar guise as a deliberative
body deciding whether to return indictments for specific
crimes on the basis of evidence gathered and presented
by a public prosecutor." (P. ___ of 186 U.S.App.D.C., p.
24 of 569 F.2d)
6. The attempted split of the prosecutor's role,
depending on how much or how little evidence, and
whether he has heard it before or not, is totally
erroneous and confusing. The attempted split of the
grand jury's role, between on the one hand complicated
cases in which it assists in ferreting out the true facts of
the case as well as hearing evidence of which the
prosecutor was already aware, and on the other hand
cases in which the grand jury functions as a deliberative
body, which according to the majority now includes
both hearing evidence "gathered and presented by a
public prosecutor" and its secret deliberations on
evidence in any type of case, is likewise totally erroneous
and confusing. The grand jury is never in a "familiar
guise as a deliberative body" when it is hearing any
evidence — no matter how routine the presentation.
Nor is the prosecutor ever assisting the grand jury in its
"familiar guise as a deliberative body" — such action, as
the majority describes it, would invalidate every
indictment.
7. Aside from its misconception of the functions of the
grand jury, and its attempt to redraw the line between
those functions, now clearly drawn by law, the
majority's idea of dividing the functions of the
prosecutor with the grand jury into two separate parts,
one apparently his role in a routine case and the other in
a more elaborate case requiring original work with the
grand jury, is utterly impractical. There is no possible
line of distinction to be drawn between different types
of cases as the majority apparently thinks there is.
Cases before a grand jury run the gamut from a simple
narcotics possession case, which may require only the
testimony of the arresting officer, elicited by questions
from the prosecutor, after which an indictment [569
F.2d 44] is speedily voted while the prosecutor is getting
a glass of water at the nearby water cooler, to a very
complicated income tax fraud or mail fraud case in
which reluctant or fearful witnesses may have declined
to talk to federal investigative agents, but do testify
before the grand jury under the questioning of the
prosecutor — cases that may require weeks and weeks of
testimony before the grand jury.
In between are every shade and variation of case in
which the advocacy skill of the prosecutor is called upon
to assist the grand jury. There is the simple fraud case, in
which the witnesses before the grand jury may be only
one investigator and three victims defrauded, after
whose testimony the prosecutor may inform the jury
that ten other fraud victims are available to testify if the
jury wishes to hear them, but what they will say has
been summarized by the investigator. Then there is the
same type case in which one or two witnesses may be
reluctant to testify for fear of incriminating themselves.
This necessitates not only the presentation of the
investigators' and the victims' evidence, but perhaps a
trip before the district judge to secure a grant of
immunity for the witness, and his second appearance
before the grand jury, at which time he responds to the
prosecutor's questioning and testifies. Then there are
situations in which, although a complete investigation
has been done by the regular federal investigative
agents, at the last minute before the presentation of
evidence to the grand jury the prosecutor learns of an
additional witness who could throw light on the case,
and he promptly puts this witness before the grand jury
without any preliminary questioning by anyone
whatsoever.
The examples of different shades of the prosecutor's
questioning, of different degrees of the prosecutor's
assistance to the grand jury, of differing combinations of
the routine and the bizarre in the presentation of
testimony before the grand jury by the prosecutor, could
be multiplied without end. There is absolutely no line
which can be drawn to separate the prosecutor's role in
the more routine case lasting a few minutes from that in
which original testimony is heard by the grand jury over
a period of weeks, for there is every variation and
combination in between. In every case the prosecutor is
assisting the grand jury in hearing evidence, the
investigative phase of the grand jury's work. The degree
of his assistance is of incalculable variety and
description, but in no case — in no case — does the
prosecutor assist the grand jury "in its more familiar
guise as a deliberative body."
8. The majority throughout stresses the advocacy
function of the prosecutor as that which is entitled to
absolute immunity. For example, "[T]he Court . . .
reaffirmed its fundamental reliance on the advocate's
role as the source of the absolute prosecutorial
immunity applied in Imbler." (P. ___ of 186
U.S.App.D.C., p. 19 of 569 F.2d) Ironically, for the
validity of the majority's logic, it is precisely in the long,
complicated grand jury case, on which the majority here
rests its denial of absolute immunity to the prosecutor,
that the prosecutor functions most as an advocate, most
similar to his role in court. In the utterly routine case,
such as the simple narcotics possession mentioned
above, the prosecutor may introduce the arresting
officer to the grand jury and only ask him one question,
"Officer, just tell the grand jury in your own words what
happened." And the officer does so without the necessity
of any further interrogation by the prosecutor.
In direct contrast, if the grand jury is engaged in a long
and protracted inquiry, in dealing with witnesses who
have not been previously examined by investigators, or
dealing with witnesses who are recalcitrant, the skills of
the advocate in cross-examination, knowledge of what is
relevant and irrelevant, his sense of when a witness is
concealing something or fabricating — all of these skills
of an advocate come into play for the prosecutor in
assisting the grand jury, the arm of the court. Strangely,
because Goodwin was engaged in assisting the grand
jury in such an inquiry, the majority wishes to term his
actions "investigative," and deny him his status as an
"advocate" entitled to absolute immunity, which the
majority would grant him if he were [569 F.2d 45]
presenting to the grand jury a one gram narcotics
possession case!
Surely, the prosecutor is functioning as an officer of the
court and in direct relation to the judicial phase of the
criminal process in any case in which he works with the
grand jury — irrespective of complexity, length of time,
number of witnesses, or whether the witnesses have
been interviewed before. Yet, most ironically, it is
precisely in the type case in which the prosecutor
utilizes his talents of advocacy, the type case the majority
says the grand jury and Goodwin had here, in which the
majority would deny the prosecutor absolute immunity.
9. It is apparent that only if the majority wants to deny
all prosecutors absolute immunity for all their work
with the grand jury could the majority's position be
logically coherent. And this bold stroke the majority has
not essayed.
The true distinction between the prosecutor acting as an
officer of the court and his acting in an investigative role
is one which the majority opinion does not describe, but
which is inherent in the Supreme Court's opinions in
Imbler and in other cases. When the prosecutor
examines a witness before the grand jury, whether he
asks one question or five hundred, he is functioning as
an officer of the court and his activities are intimately
associated with the judicial phase of the criminal
process. I submit this is undeniable. When the
prosecutor goes out to the residence of a potential
witness and interrogates him there, then he is
functioning in what the majority ought properly to
describe as the role of an investigator. On the point
reserved in Imbler and on the issue decided in a few
cases, then and then only the prosecutor may not have
the absolute immunity which clothes his every action as
part of the judicial process. When he is interrogating a
possible witness outside the courtroom or the grand jury
room, then he may be filling the role of a policeman or
investigative agent and be clothed with whatever
immunity they possess. This we do not need to decide
here, any more than the Supreme Court decided the
issue in Imbler.
D. The Prosecutor Divested
The rationale of the majority opinion throughout has
been, first, to designate the grand jury work on the day
the incident occurred in the courtroom as being
"investigative" in character and not "deliberative";
secondly, to associate Goodwin with the grand jury
acting in its non-deliberative role (assuming that the
prosecutor could be associated with the grand jury in its
deliberative role!); and then, finally, saying that his
response to one question from the judge in the
courtroom was in connection with his work with the
grand jury, and this grand jury's task was "investigative,"
to deny the prosecutor his absolute immunity.
Four quick points highlight the total lack of precedent
for my colleagues' decision today:
1. No case cited in the 37-page majority opinion ever held that any
prosecutor's action in the courtroom was "investigation" or
"administration," or was entitled to anything less than absolute
immunity.
2. The "proper line" drawn in Imbler was between the prosecutor's
responsibilities "as an administrator" and those "as an officer of the
court," and every action of a prosecutor described by the Supreme
Court as "administrator or investigative officer" was outside the
courtroom and courthouse.
3. The Supreme Court has never held that "those aspects of the
prosecutor's responsibility that cast him in the role of an
administrator or investigative officer rather than that of advocate"61
are entitled to less than absolute immunity, and the issue was
specifically not decided in Imbler.
4. No case cited in the 37-page majority opinion confers anything
less than absolute immunity on any person for his statements from
the witness stand.
[569 F.2d 46] Summing up Goodwin's role as a
prosecutor in the incident made the basis of plaintiffs'
suit for perjury: only because Goodwin was lead counsel
for the Government in court was he singled out as the
person to be asked the question; there was only one
question and one answer, made from the witness stand
rather than from the counsel table; at the time Goodwin
was in the courtroom, before a U.S. district judge, in his
prosecutorial advocate's role as an officer of the court in
a hearing connected with a proceeding before the grand
jury, an arm of the court. How Goodwin's role can be
considered anything but that "as an officer of the court"
or his actions be deemed not "intimately associated with
the judicial phase of the criminal process, and thus . .
functions to which the reasons for absolute immunity
apply with full force,"62 is beyond my ready
comprehension. But my colleagues assert that for one
critical moment Goodwin was transformed in his
appearance as a witness into something else, that since
the one question had to do with a grand jury
"investigation," he was thereby taken out of the
"advocacy" rule of Imbler. Whether that be true or not,
yet it seems undeniable that in answering a question
under oath Goodwin was also functioning as a witness,
another source of absolute immunity to which we now
must turn.
II. WITNESS IMMUNITY
A. The Prosecutor-Witness Transformed
The way that the majority divests Goodwin of his
absolute immunity as courtroom advocate is by casting
him as a courtroom investigator, entitled only to the
qualified immunity of the policeman. Let us focus again
on the critical passage of the majority opinion:
. . . [W]e believe that appellant's false statement to the federal
district court in Florida is properly characterized as an act of
investigation rather than advocacy. . . . [A]ppellant's alleged perjury
bears no relation whatever to the advocate's role as conceived by
the Supreme Court in Imbler63
If Goodwin departed from his role as an Advocate (and I
agree, it is what he is doing not his title as prosecutor
which confers immunity), he did so only to become a
Witness, and a witness in court likewise has absolute
immunity from civil suit. The very suit for damages
brought here alleges perjury by Goodwin; perjury is an
action peculiarly tied to witnesses; the perjury here is
alleged to have occurred in court; perjury has nothing to
do with "investigative" or "administrative" activities,
which are contemplated by all the cases to occur outside
the courtroom. The majority opinion itself grudgingly
admits, "Although he was called upon by the court to
make a representation of fact in a courtroom after being
sworn . . . ."64
Continuing with my colleagues' own language, they
speak of "appellant's false statement" and "appellant's
alleged perjury." When they assert such action "bears no
relation whatever to the advocate's role," they have
some reason for the distinction; but perjury certainly
bears every relation to the witness's role!
My colleagues are the victims of their stage props. For
almost 20 pages they have been setting the stage with
language from various cases distinguishing between the
prosecutor's role as advocate and his other duties, cases
which hold or suggest that the [569 F.2d 47] other duties
are not necessarily protected by the prosecutor's
admitted absolute immunity as an advocate. The
problem of my colleagues is that these other duties are
all described as "investigative," "administrative," and of
similar nature. There is not one word cited that would
exclude anything done by the prosecutor in assistance in
the judicial process in court from the protection of
absolute immunity. There is, of course, not one word
about the prosecutor stepping into the role of witness —
another universally held position accorded absolute
immunity from civil liability. So, in an effort to take
Goodwin's action outside this protection, when the
majority comes to its conclusion, it is necessarily
expressed in the magic language of the cases — a "false
statement" becomes "an act of investigation rather than
advocacy."
The obligation to disclose, as a sworn witness,
information about informants may, in a narrow sense,
be "foreign to advocacy," as the majority suggests,65 but
the actions of a witness do not, therefore, automatically
become "investigative," stripped of absolute immunity.
For to the extent Goodwin departed the prosecutor's
role at all, it was to become a witness. But whether
Goodwin be considered primarily a witness or a
prosecutor, how a person performing the role of
prosecutor could detach himself from the absolute
immunity which that function historically has always
enjoyed by the temporary assumption of the role of a
witness, when that function in the court's process has
likewise always historically enjoyed an absolute
immunity, was beyond my imagination until after
reading the majority opinion. Looking at three centuries
of decisions granting absolute immunity to both
prosecutor and witness, I would have thought that the
immunity of the prosecutor was reinforced by the
immunity of the witness, not derogated.
The majority, however, manages to divest Goodwin of
both immunities. Prosecutorial immunity is lost because
Goodwin is characterized, without support from case
law, as an "investigator" — although any casual
bystander (and perhaps even the trial judge) in that
courtroom would have sworn that he had seen a lawyer
at work, indeed, a prosecutor functioning as an
advocate, and, yes, he had also seen and heard that
prosecutor testify briefly. And witness immunity is lost
because the majority holds here that absolute witness
immunity should never be available in a § 1983 or
Bivens-type suit. The consequences of this
extraordinary step, a rule of qualified immunity for
witnesses adopted for the first time, which clashes
directly with the one other precedent from a circuit,66
deserves careful attention before proceeding further.
B. Extraordinary (and Apparently Unforeseen)
Consequences of a Qualified Immunity Rule for
Witnesses
The first implication is that any and all state and local
officials who testify "under color of law" will have no
absolute immunity in their capacity as witnesses in suits
for damages to constitutional rights under § 1983. For
the majority expressly states, "The immunities enjoyed
by state officials sued under § 1983 are governed by
federal law."67 Since, in this Bivens-type case, the
majority holds that witness immunity is never available
for a federal official as a matter of federal law, it follows
that state and local officials, who must look to federal
law in § 1983 suits, will also be unable in any
circumstance to avail themselves of absolute witness
immunity. Neither my colleagues nor I can calculate the
practical impact of the majority's rule, but there are
undoubtedly countless federal, state and local officials
who regularly testify in judicial proceedings who are
now stripped of any possible defense of absolute
immunity [569 F.2d 48] in their capacity as witnesses.
What the majority leaves for each official is whatever
underlying immunity he may have in his original
capacity, which, of course, may vary from witness to
witness and may vary even within the testimony of a
single witness.68
Another implication of the majority's rejection of
absolute witness immunity is that an official who
testifies now stands subject to the full range of damage
suits for deprivation of constitutional rights. In this case
Goodwin is charged with injury to the Sixth
Amendment right to counsel due to his alleged perjury.
The majority sets no limits on the "constitutional torts"
that a witness may be held liable for, now that the
absolute immunity qua witness is taken away. Causes of
action against a witness for what he said on the stand
come readily to mind. As exemplified in the notes
below, violations of the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth
Amendments, actionable for damages, may well stem
from perjury,69 and violations of the First and
Fourteenth Amendments, also actionable for damages,
may even arise from true statements.70
Once again, neither my colleagues nor I can envision the
full practical impact of bringing an increased scope of
liability to the witness stand, but the majority's new rule
surely bears implications, only partially [569 F.2d 49]
suggested here, that summon the majority to a much
fuller consideration of the witness immunity. Before
turning completely to the issue, I note with regret that
the majority totally abstains from any consideration of
the policies behind witness immunity, only noting that
they "do not apply with equal force" when a
constitutional violation is alleged.71
C. Absolute Immunity for Witnesses — Supreme Court
Precedent, Logic, Policy, and History
In considering whether a witness should be accorded
absolute immunity in a Bivens-type suit or any other, it
must be emphasized that historically all of the essential
participants in the judicial process enjoyed an absolute
immunity from civil suit for their words and actions
relevant to the judicial proceedings. This included the
judge, petit jurors, grand jurors, counsel, and witnesses.
Absolute immunity was regarded as essential to each, if
justice was to have the full and uninhibited cooperation
of those participants whose role was and is absolutely
vital to the working of the entire judicial process. As
Justice White declared in Imbler, 72 "It is essential to the
ends of justice that all persons participating in judicial
proceedings . . . should enjoy freedom of speech in the
discharge of their public duties or in pursuing their
rights, without fear of consequences."
This is not to say that improper conduct in the
courtroom or elsewhere by any participant could not
then and cannot today be punished. The judge has
always been subject to impeachment, prosecution, and
disbarment as a lawyer. The prosecutor and defense
counsel have always been subject to punishment for
contempt, prosecution for any crime such as obstruction
of justice, and disbarment.73 Witnesses have always
been subject to punishment for contempt, perjury, or
possibly obstruction of justice. Criminal penalties
likewise have been applied to petit jurors and grand
jurors. No immunity protects these persons from
criminal prosecution or professional discipline, if
anyone should act contrary to law in the performance of
his office.
But none of these participants, essential to the
functioning of the judicial process, has ever been held to
be subject to a civil suit by an allegedly aggrieved party
because of anything said or done while functioning in
the role of judge, juror, witness, or counsel.
The reasons for the historic common law absolute
immunity of these essential participants is obvious on
analysis, which will be developed in the following pages.
What the majority of this court does in this decision is
not just throw open one possibly errant prosecutor to
civil liability, but to tear the whole seamless fabric of
absolute immunity granted essential participants in the
judicial process from time immemorial.
If we were to accept the majority's rationale here, the
impact of the Bivens case and § 1983 on historic
common law immunities would be devastating.
Fortunately, that is not the way the Supreme Court has
gone about its analysis. I can only deduce from it that
the witness, particularly a public official as witness,
should be accorded the same absolute immunity as the
other participants.
It is well established that "§ 1983 is to be read in
harmony with general principles of tort immunities
rather than in derogation of them."74 Thus, in deciding
which official [569 F.2d 50] functions should be
absolutely protected from suit under § 1983, the Court
has generally sought first to determine the status of the
common law immunity with regard to that function,
then the Court has considered whether the public policy
behind the common law rule justifies the same
immunity for "constitutional torts." In a number of
instances, the Court has adopted the absolute immunity
that had developed at common law: Tenney v.
Brandhove75 (legislators); Pierson v. Ray76 (judges);
Imbler v. Pachtman, supra (prosecutors). Even though
these immunities had initially arisen only with regard to
common law torts, the Court preserved them with
regard to deprivations of constitutional rights as well.
Where the common law had established a qualified
immunity for the official, the Court has maintained that
standard in the § 1983 actions as well: Pierson v. Ray,
supra (policemen); Wood v. Strickland77 (school board
members). As in the cases of absolute immunity, the
court entered into a fresh appraisal of the competing
factors, including, as just mentioned, the nature of the
new "constitutional tort." The fact that the results
reached by the Court have generally78 paralleled the
judgments of the common law does not mean, of course,
that the status of the common law immunity is
dispositive, but surely does suggest that the common
law, as a starting point of analysis, should not be
"overruled" lightly.
The absolute immunity of the witness at common law is
as firmly rooted in history and as widely accepted by the
courts as is the absolute common law immunity that was
accepted for legislators in Tenney, for judges in Pierson,
and for prosecutors in Imbler. Immunities for various
participants in the judicial process were already
established by courts as early as the sixteenth century,79
and in 1772 Lord Mansfield announced the
comprehensive rule: "Neither party, witness, counsel,
jury nor [569 F.2d 51] judge can be put to answer, civilly
or criminally for words spoken in office."80 Accepted as
"practically [the] universal rule in this country,"81 this
rule of absolute immunity means that a witness in
judicial proceedings cannot be held liable in civil
damages for injury that ensues from any relevant
testimony. Of particular significance is that this rule is
also applied as a matter of federal common law,82 which,
the majority tells us,83 is an important focus for the
formulation of a federal immunity standard. Absolute
witness immunity has been carried into the Restatement
of Torts84 and has been set out approvingly by the
commentators as well.85 It is notable that in Imbler itself
Justice White wrote that the need to protect the judicial
process at common law meant that absolute immunity
"applied to suits against witnesses themselves for
delivering false and defamatory testimony."86
Do the policies that underlie the common law immunity
for a witness warrant the continued availability of
absolute immunity in § 1983 or Bivens-type suits? The
policy behind the common law reflects a balancing
process. In the context of a defamation suit,87 Judge
Hastie expressed the rationale for absolute witness
immunity as follows:88
This rule reflects the prevailing common law view that the public
interest in freedom of expression by participants in judicial
proceedings, uninhibited by any risk of resultant suits for
defamation, outweighs the interest of the individual in the
protection of his reputation from defamatory impairment in the
judicial forum.
The reason for the public interest in the "freedom of
expression" of a witness is that the judgment of the
judicial process itself, the centerpiece of all judicial
immunities, may well be based on the testimony of the
witness and the witness, thus, should be fully
encouraged to disclose pertinent information. "For a
witness," Justice White states, "this means he must be
permitted to testify without fear of being sued if his [569
F.2d 52] testimony is disbelieved."89 Full disclosure may
be impaired, in other words, if there can be
"intimidation" deriving from "the possibility of civil
liability."90
Set against the value of full freedom for the witness is, as
Judge Hastie noted, the possible damage, e. g., to the
reputation of others, that may ensue. This danger has its
limits, however, because witnesses are, of course,
"subject to the control of the trial judge and are subject
to contempt citations for misbehavior in the exercise of
the privilege and to prosecution for perjury if convicted
of knowingly giving false testimony."91 Thus, with a
deterrent already available against perjury by a witness
in the form of criminal sanctions, the common law
regarded the additional deterrent of having to defend a
civil damage suit as rendering "the risk of selfcensorship
. . too great."92
In striking the balance in favor of absolute immunity,
the common law meant in no way to derogate the duty
of the witness to state the facts objectively. Of course,
the witness has no discretion to commit perjury, but, to
borrow from Learned Hand, it might be "impossible to
know whether the claim [of perjury] is well founded
until the case has been tried."93 Such a possibility, Judge
Hand concluded (in the context of prosecutorial
immunity), could "dampen the ardor"94 of even the
person intending to perform truthfully and properly.
The witness immunity at common law is apparently so
thorough that it makes no exception for an action where
the perjury seems, on the face of the complaint, to admit
of no ambiguity, such as when a husband of twenty five
years testifies, for example, that he has never been
married. Even though it might be "monstrous to deny
recovery"95 in that case, the common law is so unwilling
to expose the honest witness to any civil risk that it
would not allow even that case to go to trial.
The policies underlying common law immunity for a
witness justify the availability of absolute immunity for a
witness sued in a § 1983 or Bivens-type action. As
noted, the common law regarded absolute immunity for
the witness as essential to the protection of the integrity
of the judicial process. Similarly, each time the Supreme
Court in a § 1983 suit has considered the immunities
related to the judicial process, the Court has continued
the absolute immunity of the common law—for judges
in Pierson and for prosecutors in Imbler. Indeed, the
Imbler Court strongly suggested, both in the majority
and separate opinions, that it would readily extend the
full immunity to grand jurors96 and defense counsel.97
The Court's continued extension of absolute immunity
to all the participants in the judicial process, which
undeniably includes witnesses, represents a thorough
acceptance of the common law policy that the provision
of only qualified immunity might inhibit the full
disclosure of relevant evidence and impair the judgment
of the court. In each instance the common law policy
has been assessed as a "compelling" enough justification
for the absolute immunity also to be available for
constitutional torts.
The majority gives no reason at all, and none appears to
me, why a witness should be singled out for less than the
full protection afforded all the other participants.98 [569
F.2d 53] As for other participants, the possibility of civil
liability for the witness undoubtedly can be said to
provide some "chill" to the full expression of his
testimony. Where "the triers of fact in criminal cases
often would be denied relevant evidence,"99 as a
consequence of the provision of only qualified
immunity, the judgment of the court can plainly be said
to be impaired. The possibility of this "adverse effect
upon the functioning of the criminal justice system"100
has warranted absolute immunity for other participants
in the judicial process and warrants absolute immunity
for the witness too.
The witness should not be singled out for less protection
than the other participants in the judicial process
because, like those participants, he is also subject to
other checks on the abuse of his power. Testimony may
be excluded from court or tested under crossexamination
and through jury scrutiny. The witness
himself is subject to the supervision and discipline of the
court and may even be indicted and convicted of [569
F.2d 54] perjury. Following the reasoning of the Imbler
Court about prosecutorial immunity,101 it is fair to say
that the existence of those other checks undermines the
argument that the imposition of civil liability is the only
way to prevent a witness from inflicting constitutional
injury through false testimony.
It is noteworthy that the only other court to consider
the liability of a witness in a Bivens-type suit had no
hesitation in awarding absolute immunity—Brawer v.
Horowitz.102 Noting the need for "fearless" witnesses
and the means, other than damage suits, for deterring
perjury, Judge Aldisert, writing for a unanimous panel
of the Third Circuit, concluded:103
The policy arguments supporting common-law witness immunity
obtain equally to immunize a single witness from a Bivens-type
action.
This is the holding, and it is good precedent here,
despite the majority's unwillingness to accept it.104 The
majority's notation that the merits of Brawer were
reached only by assuming arguendo that the witness was
acting under color of law is beside the point, as Brawer's
assumption of state action does not invalidate its
documentation and reasoning.105
In addition to the common law policies discussed above
and followed in Brawer, there are reasons why the
absolute immunity should especially be preserved for
the official as witness. Officials who are called as
witnesses have duties in addition to the duty to tell the
truth in their testimony. To the extent these additional
duties are impaired by qualified immunity, that is all the
more reason to assure them the full immunities afforded
private citizens who have only their duties as witnesses.
Let us take the office of the prosecutor, for example.
Suppose as a witness a prosecutor responds to the judge
with very definitive but honest answers, but later
uncovers evidence that puts into serious doubt the
accuracy of his testimony. If he were only afforded
qualified immunity, then this warning from Imbler
becomes very appropriate: "The possibility of personal
liability . . . could dampen the prosecutor's exercise of
his duty to bring to the attention of the court or of
proper officials all significant evidence suggestive of
innocence or mitigation."106
Other officials are subject to similar duties. An FBI
agent, for example, is supposed to reveal to the
prosecutor mitigating evidence he unearths. Will the
FBI agent be chilled in the exercise of this duty because
he testified, albeit honestly, to the contrary, and fears a
lawsuit for perjury as a witness, defensible only with a
qualified immunity? Considerations such as these, left
unaddressed by the majority, further tipped the balance
towards absolute immunity in Imbler and, as shown,
counsel us to provide absolute immunity to officials in
their capacity as witnesses.
In sum, the rejection in toto by the majority of an
absolute immunity for a witness in a Bivens-type suit
amounts to a tearing of the whole seamless fabric of
absolute immunity granted the other participants in the
judicial process—judges, prosecutors, defense counsel
and jurors. In doing so, the majority clearly fails to
engage in a full and reasoned analysis of the common
law immunity, as Imbler requires and exemplifies. The
majority's result not only clashes with the one other
Circuit holding on witness immunity but, most
significantly, undercuts a compelling interest that is at
the heart of the judicial process, that is, [569 F.2d 55]
that the integrity of its fact-finding function is best
served by providing absolute freedom from civil suit to
its participants so as to encourage unintimidated
disclosure and expression.
The majority also argues the point that whatever the
value of the common law immunity of the witness these
policies are "tangential, and essentially irrelevant" to this
case because the prosecutor here was not an "ordinary
witness." In attempting to carve out an exception to the
absolute immunity of the witness the majority relies, as
we shall see, upon a particular reading of immunity
doctrine that was clearly rejected in Imbler. Noting that
Goodwin did not testify "in the usual sense at a trial or
even before grand jurors," the majority also recites that
it was the judge who asked the question and that the
opportunity for cross-examination was denied.107 These
circumstances demonstrate for the majority, as it said
earlier,108 how the statement was thus "insulat[ed]" from
examination and appraisal and how, therefore, it
warrants only qualified immunity. As I understand this
rationale, it goes more fully as follows: one justification
for absolute witness immunity is that possible perjury by
a witness will be subjected to the "rough-and-tumble" of
the trial process—cross-examination, jury scrutiny, and
the presentation of conflicting evidence, so that when
these corrective elements are lacking, as when crossexamination
is foreclosed, the witness is not really an
"ordinary" witness for purposes of absolute immunity
and may justifiably be accorded only qualified immunity.
In Imbler, however, the majority expressly rejected the
argument that absolute immunity for a prosecutor
should turn on whether his possible constitutional
violation in particular could be corrected through the
trial process.109 As explained in more detail earlier,110
Imbler meant for the prosecutor to have absolute
immunity even if his constitutional violation had
involved the complete suppression of exculpatory
evidence, a decision insulated from scrutiny at trial.
Similarly with a witness, the provision of absolute
immunity should not turn on whether the testimony
could be tested for accuracy through cross-examination
or whether the substance of the testimony itself
amounted to a total suppression of the information
sought. Absolute immunity for a witness is meant to
ensure an unintimidated opportunity to contribute to
the fact-finding of the judicial process; its availability
should not depend on how, in a particular case, that
opportunity was utilized.111
Such an ad hoc rule, to be applied retroactively, as the
majority enunciates here, would be totally devastating to
any realistic protection by "absolute" (?) immunity.
The majority's other argument for finding absolute
witness immunity inapplicable is that "[t]he statement
assailed here was prompted by, and directly incidental
to, appellant's status as a prosecutor managing and
administering an investigation."112 Since the statement
was related to his status [569 F.2d 56] as an investigator,
as the majority sees it, he then is entitled to only a
qualified immunity.113 Even accepting the majority's
characterization of Goodwin's underlying status as an
"investigator," it appears that the majority's analysis
simply begs the question of witness immunity. If a
witness is only entitled to the immunity of his
underlying status, then the majority is really rejecting
absolute witness immunity entirely as a special
immunity that attaches to a certain class of participants
in the judicial process. A police officer testifying about a
search and seizure, for example, may only have a
qualified immunity, as a police officer, but that does not
mean he is not entitled to absolute immunity, as a
witness. If the underlying status is dispositive of the
degree of witness immunity, qualified or absolute, then
the majority is really saying that there should be no
special witness immunity at all.
Thus, its view that Goodwin in this particular case
should not have absolute witness immunity is based
upon its general position that no witness, qua witness,
should be afforded absolute immunity where a
"constitutional tort" is involved. And THAT is an idea
whose time has not hitherto come in any court. I am not
ready for it here.
D. Absolute Counsel Immunity
Still another reason that the majority advances for
considering witness immunity inapt is that, for all
practical purposes, Goodwin could readily have given
the same answer from the counsel table, "as an officer of
the court,"114 as he gave from the witness stand. There
should be no difference, the majority contends, in the
scope of immunity conferred for the same statement
whether the prosecutor is on the witness stand or at the
counsel table. With that last general statement I am in
agreement, for the prosecutor from the counsel table, as
"an officer of the court," is under no less of an obligation
to tell the truth than a prosecutor on the witness stand.
But the problem with the majority's conclusion—that
the witness here, therefore, should not have absolute
immunity—is that there is also an established absolute
immunity for all relevant statements made by counsel in
court. In other words, if Goodwin had made the same
statement from the counsel table rather than from the
witness stand, he would have absolute immunity as
counsel in a judicial proceeding, even apart from
whatever protection is available under Imbler. Goodwin
did make the statement in the momentary capacity of a
witness, so this dissent has taken up that immunity in
some detail, but if the majority wishes to contend that
the witness immunity here [569 F.2d 57] should be the
equivalent here of counsel immunity, I am willing to
contend as well that absolute counsel immunity would
extend to Goodwin's statement from the table, if that
had happened instead.
As with judges and witnesses, the common law afforded
absolute immunity to action taken by counsel in judicial
proceedings. Indeed, as Prosser explains,115 the
"privilege covers anything that may be said in relation to
the matter at issue, whether it be in the pleadings, in
affidavits, or in open court." In common with the other
immunities, absolute counsel immunity was and is based
on the policy of protecting the judicial process. And
with the other immunities, it is equally as well settled.116
In the context of a § 1983 or Bivens-type suit, this
absolute immunity at common law should carry over,
even as against constitutional torts, precisely because of
the compelling interest, as illustrated by the common
law, in protecting the judicial process. I have explained
these interests and policies in more detail in my
argument earlier that the absolute witness immunity of
common law should also be available in § 1983 and
Bivens-type suits,117 and need not repeat them here.
Suffice it to say that Goodwin would surely have been
acting as counsel in the case if the judge had asked him a
question during a grand jury proceeding, even apart, of
course, from whether he was acting as a prosecutor in
the Imbler sense. At common law, as noted, all relevant
statements of counsel, be they termed advocacy or
investigation, within the confines of the courtroom
process were entitled to absolute protection. If counsel
immunity is to be carried over for constitutional torts,
as would be expected under the unwavering protection
afforded the judicial process by the Supreme Court, then
there is simply no basis for assuming that Goodwin's
statement, if made from the counsel table instead, would
be entitled to only qualified immunity.118
[569 F.2d 58] III. REVIEWABILITY OF THE
WITNESS IMMUNITY ISSUE
While the above concludes my dissent, Judge Robinson
and I are of the view that the question of absolute
witness immunity is before us for decision at this point
under the "collateral order" exception to the final
judgment rule of 28 U.S.C. § 1291. Although Judge
McGowan's opinion does set out the basic reasoning for
why the collateral order doctrine "may be thought to be
present here," it is necessary for us in the majority on
this point to amplify this reasoning in somewhat more
detail, not only to provide greater dimension to the
summary description presently available but also to
respond to the reservations of Judge McGowan in
dissent on this point.
As Judge McGowan's opinion explains in more detail,119
the District Court in this case certified the question of
absolute prosecutorial immunity for interlocutory
appeal under 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b) but did not so certify
the question of absolute witness immunity. For reasons
of his own,120 Judge McGowan believes that review of
the question of absolute witness immunity should be
declined at this point and should instead await appeal
from any final judgment in this action.
[569 F.2d 59] In the recent case of Abney v. United
States, 121 the Court was asked to review the pretrial
dismissal of petitioners' claims that their retrial would
violate the Double Jeopardy Clause. The Court accepted
review of the pretrial dismissal as it amounted to a "final
decision" on the jeopardy claims under the practical
construction that had been given that term. See Cohen
v. Beneficial Industrial Loan Corp.122 The rights
conferred by the Double Jeopardy Clause, the Chief
Justice stated for a unanimous Court, would be
"significantly undermined" if review of their claims were
postponed until after conviction and sentence.
"Obviously," the Chief Justice noted,123 much protection
would be lost with postponed review:
[E]ven if the accused is acquitted, or, if convicted has his conviction
ultimately reversed on double jeopardy grounds, he has still been
forced to endure a trial that the Double Jeopardy Clause was
designed to prohibit (footnote omitted) (emphasis added).
Because the double jeopardy claims met the other
requirements of the "collateral order" rule, viz., that the
pretrial dismissal had "fully disposed" of the question,
and that the question was "collateral," or separate from
the principal issue of the trial (guilt or innocence), the
Court considered the pretrial orders as "final decisions"
and proceeded to review them.
The analogy between Abney and the instant case is close
and striking. As with the Double Jeopardy Clause, the
purpose behind absolute immunity is as much to protect
the relevant persons from a trial on their actions as it is
to protect them from the outcome of trial. In the classic
statement of Judge Learned Hand:124
The justification for [absolute immunity] is that it is impossible to
know whether the claim is well founded until the case has been
tried, and that to submit all officials, the innocent as well as the
guilty, to the burden of a trial and to the inevitable danger of its
outcome, would dampen the ardor of all but the most resolute, or
the most irresponsible, in the unflinching discharge of their duties.
To wait until after the trial for the appellate review of
claims of absolute immunity subverts a basic rationale of
the doctrine, as Judge Hand has set it out, that is, to
prevent the chilling of the free exercise of discretion by
not subjecting an official in the protected capacity to a
trial for damages on his action.
Judge McGowan responds that interlocutory review
nevertheless is inappropriate on this absolute immunity
question because the question is preserved in the record
and will be available for review upon appeal of any final
judgment in the action. This is literally true, of course,
but for that matter, so would the double jeopardy claim
in Abney have been preserved in the record for review
from conviction and sentence. Instead, however, the
Abney Court inquired into whether the relevant rights
that were the subject of the pretrial order would be
"significantly undermined" if appellate review had to
await final action in the case. Applying this inquiry here,
it is clear—and Judge McGowan does not contest the
point—that the full protection of absolute immunity
would be irreparably lost if review had to await final
judgment.125 To paraphrase Abney, even if the
defendant here is held not liable in damages, or, if held
liable, has his liability ultimately reversed on absolute
witness immunity [569 F.2d 60] grounds, "he has still
been forced to endure a trial that the [doctrine of
absolute immunity] was designed to prohibit."
As his second objection to interlocutory review of
absolute witness immunity, Judge McGowan contends
that because the District Court declined to certify this
question under 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b) the collateral order
doctrine should not be invoked "as a vehicle for
appellate revision of the essential determination
committed by Congress to the District Court."126 I
would agree with Judge McGowan that in the
Interlocutory Appeals Act of 1958 Congress meant to
make unreviewable the decisions of the District Court
about whether to certify a question for interlocutory
appeal.127 However, I submit that a refusal to certify an
order for appeal under § 1292(b) has not necessarily
been read, and should not necessarily be read as forever
foreclosing that order from interlocutory appeal by
another route.
Imagine, for example, if the petitioners in Abney had
sought (as they did not) certification of their double
jeopardy claims from the trial court and had been denied
it. I agree that there could be no review of the denial of
certification, e. g., for abuse of discretion, but I cannot
agree that on that account there could be no
interlocutory review through another means of the
double jeopardy claims. Indeed, the authority cited by
Judge McGowan takes the view that the denial of §
1292(b) certification should not be read so harshly.
Speaking of the developing doctrine of "supervisory"
mandamus, Professor Moore notes: "If a § 1292(b)
certificate is sought and denied, mandamus will then lie
in an appropriate case, not to compel issuance of the
certificate, but to review the order for which the
certificate was sought."128 The Supreme Court has
instructed us that interlocutory review by "supervisory"
mandamus of nonfinal orders may be "necessary to
proper judicial administration in the federal system."129
When the circumstances require that "supervisory"
mandamus be exercised, mandamus of the underlying
order should not be barred solely because the trial court
refused to certify it. For, as another commentator
suggested,
[Section] 1292(b) does not obviate the need for advisory
mandamus. . . . [C]ertification is limited by the discretion of the
district judge; while enlightened judges may well see the necessity of
rapid determination of a difficult problem, the policies favoring
mandamus should not be bent to the will of individual district court
judges.130
Similarly, when the policies behind the collateral order
doctrine call for the interlocutory appeal of a "final"
pretrial order, those policies favoring immediate review,
as in the Abney situation, for example, should not be
bent to the will of individual district court judges. Since
the discretion of the trial judge whether to certify is
itself unreviewable, the value of immediate review in
the "small class" of cases where it is warranted under the
collateral order doctrine could be irretrievably lost if
Judge McGowan's view, that denial of certification per
se bars interlocutory review, were to prevail.
[569 F.2d 61] CONCLUSION
In summary, the errors and misconceptions of the
majority opinion are:
1. The underlying principles of Imbler v. Pachtman in
granting absolute immunity to the prosecutor there
must be applied to Goodwin here. If this is done, the
Supreme Court's principles compel the same absolute
immunity for this prosecutor. Efforts to distinguish
Imbler are based upon factors that are immaterial under
the very terms of Imbler and are inappropriate for the
doctrine of quasi-judicial immunity.
2. The majority has engaged in a particularistic inquiry
here, as to the duties at a single moment of this
particular prosecutor in these particular circumstances.
All the Supreme Court decisions on immunity show the
Court applying a balancing test, with reference to
common law precedent, on broad categories of public
officials to determine the immunity appropriate.
3. The majority has sought to draw a line between the
prosecutor as an advocate before the court or with the
grand jury in its "deliberative" function, and the
prosecutor with the grand jury in its "investigative"
function. The prosecutor's duties with the grand jury
cannot be so divided, legally or practically, and the
majority has not been so bold as to claim that the
prosecutor is deprived of his absolute immunity at all
times when he steps from the courtroom into the grand
jury room.
4. Even apart from how his relation to the grand jury is
characterized, it is undeniable that Goodwin's statement
was made as a sworn witness in a judicial proceeding, a
function which itself is a source of absolute immunity.
In summary, these are the unfortunate consequences
which will flow from the majority's decision:
1. The time-honored absolute quasi-judicial immunity
of the prosecutor (and other counsel) in every
courtroom situation will be replaced by a qualified
immunity in every situation, in or out of the courtroom.
For under the particularistic analysis of the majority
opinion, it will always be possible to contend that what
the lawyer did under those particular circumstances was
entitled only to a qualified immunity. Thus, counsel will
be effectively subjected to harassing suits, as Goodwin
has been here, until the highest court available finally
determines whether absolute or qualified immunity
applies. This illustrates the vast practical difference
between absolute and qualified immunity, pointed out
by Mr. Justice Powell in Imbler.
2. The number of instances in which counsel, especially
prosecutors, are called to the witness stand will take a
quantum leap. Now so rare an occurrence that all our
research has not been able to find an appellate case
similar to Goodwin's, in the future defense lawyers will
be unable to resist the temptation to call the prosecutor
to the stand, to force him to hedge or qualify the
government position on some important point, at all
times with the threat of a possible subsequent civil suit
hanging over him if he does not do so. Trial judges can
curb this only at the risk of giving the defense another
arguable point on appeal.
3. All witness immunity as such is struck down. Now,
under the majority opinion, all immunity relating to
testimony will be determined by the witness' function
(not even his regular duties or position), considered in
the particular circumstances of the individual case. This
brings into contemplation a nightmare of inconsistent
variable rules and applications.
4. All of the above represents a deadly blow at nearly all
the common-law recognized quasi-judicial absolute
immunities—prosecutor, counsel and witness. Jurors,
and then judges, will doubtless be next.
For all these reasons, and for those more fully set out in
my opinion earlier, I must respectfully dissent.