This case raises a difficult question concerning the
precise scope of the absolute prosecutorial immunity
afforded by the Supreme Court in Imbler v. Pachtman,
424 U.S. 409, 96 S.Ct. 984, 47 L.Ed.2d 128 (1976).
Plaintiffs-appellees brought in the District Court a civil
action in tort grounded upon the Constitution, alleging
injury by reason of defendant-appellant's assertedly false
testimony in a hearing held in connection with a grand
jury investigation of appellees' activities as members of
an antiwar organization. Appellant moved to dismiss on
the ground that he enjoyed absolute immunity from any
damage action based upon his conduct while acting in
his official capacity as a special federal prosecutor. [569
F.2d 13] The District Court denied this motion, and we
affirm.
I
Both the facts alleged in appellees' complaint and the
procedural posture of this appeal are important to our
decision of it. We take appellees' allegations to be true,
as we are bound to do upon review of the District
Court's pretrial disposition of a motion to dismiss.
On July 7, 1972, appellant Goodwin, an attorney with
the Internal Security Division of the United States
Department of Justice, was appointed to serve as a
Special Attorney for the investigation and prosecution
of certain federal crimes which had allegedly occurred in
the Northern District of Florida. Goodwin's letter of
appointment was vague in its delineation of Goodwin's
duties thereunder. It stated that the Department of
Justice was "informed that various persons [had]
violated . . . the [federal] anti-riot laws, Title XI of the
Organized Crime Control Act of 1970 [dealing with the
manufacture, sale, and transportation of explosives],
[and the] conspiracy . . . and other Federal criminal
statutes." Goodwin was instructed "to assist in the trial
of the case or cases growing out of the transactions . . .
mentioned in which the Government is interested."
On the day of Goodwin's appointment, subpoenas were
served upon more than twenty members of a group
known as the Vietnam Veterans Against the
War/Winter Soldier Organization (VVAW/WSO).
Some of the persons subpoenaed were in Miami,
preparing for an antiwar march scheduled to coincide
with the 1972 Democratic National Convention, which
met from July 10 to July 13, 1972. Others were located
in Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Washington, D. C.
All individuals subpoenaed were ordered to appear
before a federal grand jury in Tallahassee, Florida, three
days after service of the subpoenas, on the morning of
July 10, 1972. Among those persons so subpoenaed were
nine of the ten appellees in this case. (Appellee Briggs
was not subpoenaed until a month later.)
Considerable confusion attended the commencement of
the grand jury proceeding. Though all were members of
the same organization, many of those subpoenaed had
not known each other previously. Attorneys hastily
retained to represent appellees had little time to consult
with their clients before the grand jury began its
inquiries. Recurring rumors of police and FBI
infiltration of the VVAW/WSO prompted concern that
one or more informants might be present among those
who sought legal advice prior to their grand jury
appearances. This prompted counsel to file a motion
with the District Court in Tallahassee to direct
Goodwin and his associates to disclose any agents or
informers among those subpoenaed. The District
Court's initial response was to ask counsel for a list of
the witnesses in question and their counsel. This was
done in the afternoon of July 12 by an oral submission
on the record in open court of a list of potential grand
jury witnesses (including one Emerson Poe) and their
respective attorneys. The following morning the motion
was taken up in open court. As movants' counsel was
stating his belief that Goodwin should file an affidavit
supplying the information requested by the motion, he
was interrupted by the court's peremptory direction to
Goodwin to take the witness stand and be sworn. The
transcript shows that the court then asked Goodwin one
question:
THE COURT: Mr. Goodwin, are any of witnesses represented by
counsel agents or informants of the United States of America?
THE WITNESS: No, Your Honor.
THE COURT: You can step down.
(Witness excused.)
To counsel's immediately succeeding question, "Your
Honor, may we be permitted to question Mr. Goodwin
on this?," the court denied such permission.
None of the subpoenaed VVAW members actually
testified during the four-day grand jury proceeding.
Indeed, two appellees (Beverly and Jennings), along
with two other VVAW members not parties to this
litigation, [569 F.2d 14] were imprisoned for contempt,
when they persisted in their refusal to testify after grants
of use immunity.1 An indictment was returned on the
evening of July 13, 1972 charging six appellees (not
including Beverly and Jennings) with a variety of crimes
centering around an alleged conspiracy to unlawfully
disrupt the 1972 Republican National Convention.2
The Government's investigation of VVAW activity
continued, and on August 7, 1972, appellee Briggs was
subpoenaed to appear before the Tallahassee grand jury.
Slightly more than two months later, on October 18,
1972, a superseding indictment was filed, adding
appellee Briggs as a co-conspirator, and appellee
Michelson as an aider and abettor of the conspiracy.
Trial of the eight appellees covered by this new
indictment commenced on July 31, 1973. On August 17,
1973, appellees received, pursuant to the Jencks Act, 18
U.S.C. § 3500 (1970), a series of written materials which
revealed that Emerson Poe had been functioning as a
paid FBI informant since January, 1972; and Poe
testified, over objection, as a prosecution witness at
appellees' criminal trial. Appellees allege that, prior to
the July, 1972 grand jury proceeding, Poe had on several
occasions relayed to federal investigators the substance
of his conversations with appellee Camil, and that Poe's
reporting did not cease with the return of indictments in
1972; rather, it served as an ongoing source of
information concerning appellees' criminal defense
strategy. Despite this disadvantage, appellees were
acquitted of all criminal charges on August 31, 1973.
The complaint in the civil action was filed in the District
Court for the District of Columbia on May 28, 1974. It
alleged, inter alia, injury arising from appellant's
representation to the Florida court that no informants
were among those individuals ordered to appear before
the grand jury.3 Relying upon Bivens v. Six Unknown
Named Agents, 403 U.S. 388, 91 S.Ct. 1999, 29 L.Ed.2d
619 (1971), appellees sought declaratory relief, damages,
and the appointment of a special prosecutor to explore
the alleged official wrongdoing. On July 22, 1974,
appellant moved to dismiss on the ground that, as stated
in his brief, "as a Special Attorney of the United States
Department of Justice, he [is], pursuant to the doctrine
of quasi-judicial immunity, absolutely immune from any
damage action based upon alleged misconduct while
acting in such a capacity." This motion was denied on
November 20, 1974. 384 F.Supp. 1228.
On December 13, 1974, appellant filed a fresh motion to
dismiss, urging that "as a witness in a Federal court he is
absolutely [569 F.2d 15] immune from any damage
action or civil suit based upon his alleged false testimony
in such judicial proceeding." Alternatively, appellant
asked the District Court to certify "the issue of
immunity" for interlocutory appeal in accordance with
the provisions of 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b) (1970). In an order
dated March 4, 1975, the District Court denied
appellant's motion to dismiss on the ground of witness
immunity, and also expressly refused (what it
interpreted as) appellant's request to certify the issue of
witness immunity for interlocutory appeal under §
1292(b). However, the District Court did agree to certify
the issue of quasi-judicial (or prosecutorial) immunity
for such appeal, and included in its March 4 order a
declaration that the "Order of November 20, 1974 . . . be
and hereby is certified for interlocutory appeal . . .
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b)." On May 27, 1975, a
motions panel of this court granted appellant leave to
appeal pursuant to § 1292(b). The resultant
interlocutory challenge to the District Court's failure to
dismiss the complaint is the matter now confronting us.4
II
In Bradley v. Fisher, 80 U.S. (13 Wall.) 335, 20 L.Ed. 646
(1872), the Supreme Court declared that
it is a general principle of the highest importance to the proper
administration of justice that a judicial officer, in exercising the
authority vested in him, shall be free to act upon his own
conviction, without apprehension of personal consequences to
himself.
At 347 (emphasis added). Subsequent decisions have
consistently adhered, either explicitly or implicitly, to
the proposition that official immunity, whether absolute
or qualified, extends only so far as the affected
government official's authority. See, e. g., Scheuer v.
Rhodes, 416 U.S. 232, 250, 94 S.Ct. 1683, 40 L.Ed.2d 90
(1974); Apton v. Wilson, 165 U.S.App.D.C. 22, 29-35,
506 F.2d 83, 90-95 (1974). A government employee is
not to be protected merely by virtue of his official
position for conduct undertaken outside the scope of his
authority. Apparently relying upon these well-settled
rules, the District Court in this case reasoned that: (1)
Goodwin allegedly perjured himself; (2) perjury is never
within a prosecutor's authority; (3) Goodwin cannot be
immune for activity wholly outside his authority.5
The difficulty with this approach is that any allegation
that an official, acting under color of law, has deprived
someone of his rights necessarily implies that, in the
particular case, the official exceeded his authority. Such
logic would completely abrogate the doctrine of
immunity.6 Rather, in heeding a district judge's directive
to answer a question relating to his official duties,
appellant [569 F.2d 16] performed the kind of act not
"manifestly or palpably beyond his authority," but rather
"having more or less connection with the general
matters committed by law to his control or supervision."
Spalding v. Vilas, 161 U.S. 483, 498, 16 S.Ct. 631, 637,
40 L.Ed. 780 (1896); see, e. g., Bivens v. Six Unknown
Named Agents, 456 F.2d 1339, 1343-45 (2d Cir. 1972)
(on remand); Cooper v. O'Connor, 69 App.D.C. 100,
104, 99 F.2d 135, 139, cert. denied, 305 U.S. 643, 59
S.Ct. 146, 83 L.Ed. 414 (1938); note 6 supra. The
question, then, is whether the immunity to be accorded
appellant is qualified or absolute.7
III
Finding that appellant's alleged behavior in this case falls
outside the confines of those prosecutorial activities for
which Imbler prescribed an absolute prosecutorial
immunity, we hold that appellant here is entitled only to
a qualified immunity, that is to say, his protection from
liability depends upon a showing that he entertained a
good-faith, reasonable belief in the truth of his response
to the federal district judge in Florida. In reaching this
result, we rely on a series of federal decisions
distinguishing between a prosecutor's role as advocate,
on the one hand, and his function as an administrative
or investigative officer, on the other. We further rely
upon the Supreme Court's recognition of this
distinction in Imbler, and its express disclaimer of any
intention to extend the sway of that case beyond those
prosecutorial activities "intimately [569 F.2d 17]
associated with the judicial phase of the criminal
process." 424 U.S. at 430, 96 S.Ct. at 995.
The alleged prosecutorial misconduct before the
Supreme Court in Imbler was quite different from that
attributed to appellant in this case, and much more
typical of the abuses which have commonly inspired
civil actions against prosecutors. Petitioner in Imbler
was convicted of first-degree felony murder, and his
conviction was unanimously affirmed by the California
Supreme Court. Thereafter the local district attorney
who had prosecuted Imbler voluntarily wrote to the
Governor, announcing the discovery of new evidence,
some of which tended to corroborate Imbler's alibi
defense, and some of which tended to cast doubt upon
the credibility of the state's chief identification witness.
Though all the new evidence taken together did not
conclusively establish Imbler's innocence, the district
attorney believed that considerations of fairness
compelled disclosure. On the basis of the new
information thus revealed, Imbler filed a state habeas
corpus petition. While Imbler's brief in support of this
petition praised the prosecutor's post-trial devotion to
duty, it also charged him with knowing use of false
testimony and suppression of material evidence. The
habeas petition was unanimously rejected by the
California Supreme Court.
Nearly five years later, Imbler raised essentially the same
contentions in a federal habeas petition. Rendering its
decision upon the record without a hearing, the federal
district court found several instances of prosecutorial
misconduct at trial and accordingly granted habeas
relief. The Ninth Circuit affirmed, and when California
chose not to retry Imbler, he was released. Subsequently,
over eleven years after commission of the offense for
which he had been imprisoned, Imbler filed a civil rights
suit under 42 U.S.C. § 1983,8 claiming, [569 F.2d 18]
inter alia, that the local prosecutor had intentionally
allowed the state's leading identification witness to
testify falsely, had permitted the suppression of
fingerprint evidence favorable to Imbler, and had used
at trial a police artist's sketch allegedly altered to
resemble Imbler more closely. The complaint also
maintained that the district attorney's decision to
proceed with the prosecution was improper in light of
an earlier lie detector test which had allegedly cleared
Imbler. The federal District Court granted a motion to
dismiss on the ground of prosecutorial immunity, and
the Ninth Circuit affirmed by a divided panel. 500 F.2d
1301 (1974). The Supreme Court granted certiorari and
affirmed. 424 U.S. 409, 96 S.Ct. 984, 47 L.Ed.2d 128
(1976).
Justice Powell's opinion for the Court recognized that
the doctrine of prosecutorial immunity finds both its
common law origins and its primary application in the
malicious prosecution context. "The function of a
prosecutor that most often invites a common law tort
action is his decision to initiate a prosecution, as this
may lead to a suit for malicious prosecution if the State's
case misfires." Id. at 421, 96 S.Ct. at 990. Still focusing
on common law precedents, the Court outlined the
shared rationale supporting judicial, prosecutorial, and
grand juror immunity:
The common-law immunity of a prosecutor is based upon the same
considerations that underlie the common-law immunities of judges
and grand jurors acting within the scope of their duties. These
include concern that harassment by unfounded litigation would
cause a deflection of the prosecutor's energies from his public
duties, and the possibility that he would shade his decisions instead
of exercising the independence of judgment required by his public
trust.
Id. at 422-23, 96 S.Ct. at 991 (footnote omitted). With
respect to these potential dangers, the Court could
discern no distinction between § 1983 actions and
common law malicious prosecution suits. "If a
prosecutor had only a qualified immunity, the threat of
§ 1983 suits would undermine performance of his duties
no less than would the threat of common law suits for
malicious prosecution." Id. at 424, 96 S.Ct. at 992.
Throughout the Court's opinion, the concentration on
claims likely to arise from prosecutorial behavior at or
immediately before trial is manifest. "A prosecutor is
duty bound to exercise his best judgment both in
deciding which suits to bring and in conducting them in
court." Id. (emphasis added). Describing the perils of a
contrary result in Imbler, the Court observed that
suits that survived the pleadings would pose substantial danger of
liability even to the honest prosecutor. The prosecutor's possible
knowledge of a witness' falsehoods, the materiality of evidence not
revealed to the defense, the propriety of a closing argument, and —
ultimately in every case — the likelihood that prosecutorial
misconduct so infected a trial as to deny due process, are typical of
issues with which judges struggle in actions for post-trial relief,
sometimes to differing [569 F.2d 19] conclusions. The presentation
of such issues in a § 1983 action often would require a virtual retrial
of the criminal offense in a new forum, and the resolution of some
technical issues by the lay jury. It is fair to say, we think, that the
honest prosecutor would face greater difficulty in meeting the
standards of qualified immunity than other executive or
administrative officials.
Id. at 425, 96 S.Ct. at 992 (footnote omitted). All of the
worrisome issues thus enumerated by the Court involve
possible prosecutorial errors of commission or omission
in connection with the trial of a criminal case. This
point was further emphasized a bit later in the Imbler
opinion when the Court defended its decision in terms
of the effective functioning of the criminal justice
system: "Attaining the system's goal of accurately
determining guilt or innocence requires that both the
prosecution and the defense have wide discretion in the
conduct of the trial and the presentation of evidence."
Id. at 426, 96 S.Ct. at 993 (footnote omitted; emphasis
added). In conclusion, the Court explicitly "delineate[d]
the boundaries" of its holding.
The purpose of the Court of Appeals' focus upon the functional
nature of the activities rather than respondent's status [as a
prosecutor] was to distinguish and leave standing those cases, in its
Circuit and in some others, which hold that a prosecutor engaged in
certain investigative activities enjoys not the absolute immunity
associated with the judicial process, but only a good-faith defense
comparable to the policeman's. We agree with the Court of Appeals
that respondent's activities were intimately associated with the
judicial phase of the criminal process, and thus were functions to
which the reasons for absolute immunity apply with full force. We
have no occasion to consider whether like or similar reasons
require immunity for those aspects of the prosecutor's
responsibility that cast him in the role of an administrator or
investigative officer rather than that of advocate. We hold only that
in initiating a prosecution and in presenting the State's case, the
prosecutor is immune from a civil suit for damages under § 1983.
Id. at 430-31, 96 S.Ct. at 995 (emphasis added) (citation
and footnotes omitted).
Lest his stress on the advocacy function suggest that the
Court was contemplating a mechanical immunity test
based solely upon whether alleged prosecutorial
misconduct occurred in court during the course of a
trial, Justice Powell added a few words of elaboration in
the margin.
We recognize that the duties of the prosecutor in his role as
advocate for the State involve actions preliminary to the initiation
of a prosecution and actions apart from the courtroom. A
prosecuting attorney is required, constantly, in the course of his
duty as such, to make decisions on a wide variety of sensitive issues.
These include questions of whether to present a case to a grand
jury, whether to file an information, whether and when to
prosecute, whether to dismiss an indictment against particular
defendants, which witnesses to call, and what other evidence to
present. Preparation, both for the initiation of the criminal process
and for a trial, may require the obtaining, reviewing, and evaluating
of evidence. At some point, and with respect to some decisions, the
prosecutor no doubt functions as an administrator rather than as an
officer of the court. Drawing a proper line between these functions
may present difficult questions, but this case does not require us to
anticipate them.
Id. at 431 n. 33, 96 S.Ct. at 995. Thus, the Court, while
acknowledging the potential factual problems of future
cases, reaffirmed its fundamental reliance on the
advocate's role as the source of the absolute
prosecutorial immunity applied in Imbler. Although the
passage quoted above makes clear that a prosecutor's
advocacy function does extend beyond the confines of
the trial courtroom, the examples of such preliminary
advocate activities provided by the Supreme Court are
instructive for their common focus on a particular
criminal proceeding. By the plain import of the Court's
remarks, absolute immunity under Imbler [569 F.2d 20]
extends only so far as necessary to protect a prosecutor's
decision with respect to the initiation and conduct of
particular cases. Imbler does not, in our reading,
immunize prosecutors for any and all measures they
may undertake in the course of wide-ranging law
enforcement investigations or general fact-finding
expeditions.
As the Supreme Court observed, the Ninth Circuit's
affirmance in Imbler deliberately left undisturbed earlier
decisions in that court and others which had held that
prosecutors are entitled to only a qualified immunity for
conduct performed in an investigative or administrative
capacity. See Apton v. Wilson, 165 U.S.App.D.C. 22, 30,
32-33, 506 F.2d 83, 91, 93-94 (1974); Guerro v.
Mulhearn, 498 F.2d 1249, 1256 (1st Cir. 1974);
Hampton v. City of Chicago, 484 F.2d 602, 608-09 (7th
Cir. 1973) (Stevens, J.), cert. denied, 415 U.S. 917, 94
S.Ct. 1413, 39 L.Ed.2d 471 (1974); Littleton v. Berbling,
468 F.2d 389, 410-11 (7th Cir. 1972), cert. denied, 414
U.S. 1143, 94 S.Ct. 894, 39 L.Ed.2d 97 (1974); Dodd v.
Spokane County, Washington, 393 F.2d 330, 335 (9th
Cir. 1968); Robichaud v. Ronan, 351 F.2d 533, 536-37
(9th Cir. 1965); Tomko v. Lees, 416 F.Supp. 1137, 1139
(W.D.Pa.1976), and Burkhart v. Saxbe, 397 F.Supp. 499,
503 n.4 (E.D.Pa.1975). Cf. Madison v. Purdy, 410 F.2d
99, 101-02 (5th Cir. 1969); Lewis v. Brautigam, 227 F.2d
124, 128-29 (5th Cir. 1955), and Ames v. Vavreck, 356
F.Supp. 931, 936-37 (D.Minn.1973) (all refusing to
apply absolute immunity to arguably "investigative"
activities, although doing so on the ground that the
prosecutor's alleged behavior may have been "outside
the scope of his jurisdiction;" only Ames refers
specifically to prosecutors acting as investigators). See
also Brawer v. Horowitz, 535 F.2d 830, 834 (3d Cir.
1976) (noting the Imbler distinction between advocacy
and investigation); Tyler v. Witkowski, 511 F.2d 449,
451 (7th Cir. 1975) (applying absolute immunity in a §
1983 false imprisonment suit, but citing Hampton, and
explicitly acknowledging that the conduct assailed was
not investigatory); Duba v. McIntyre, 501 F.2d 590, 592
(8th Cir. 1974), cert. denied, 424 U.S. 975, 96 S.Ct. 1480,
47 L.Ed.2d 745 (1976) (apparently accepting the
proposition that absolute immunity will not apply to
prosecutors acting in an investigatory capacity); Barnes
v. Dorsey, 480 F.2d 1057, 1060 (8th Cir. 1973)
(specifically reserving "the question of the liability of a
prosecutor acting within an investigatory capacity");
Wilhelm v. Turner, 431 F.2d 177, 182-183 (8th Cir.
1970), cert. denied, 401 U.S. 947, 91 S.Ct. 919, 28
L.Ed.2d 230 (1971) (recognizing that earlier cases had
drawn the advocacy-investigation distinction, but
finding it unnecessary to rule on the matter, since, in
any event, affidavits established that the State Attorney
General and his assistant were "acting in good faith and
had probable cause for their actions"); Fanale v. Sheehy,
385 F.2d 866, 869 (2d Cir. 1967) (Feinberg, J. and
Waterman, J., though concurring in a holding of
immunity, agree that "there would be some situations . .
. in which even `official' acts of a prosecuting officer
should not be protected by absolute immunity from civil
liability"); Bauers v. Heisel, 361 F.2d 581, 589-95 (3d
Cir. 1966) (en banc), cert. denied, 386 U.S. 1021, 87
S.Ct. 1367, 18 L.Ed.2d 457 (1967) (finding absolute
immunity in an easy case where plaintiff attacked the
prosecutor's choice of forum, but nevertheless
provoking one concurrence which refused to reach the
immunity issue, and a second concurrence and two
dissents which took issue with the majority's sweeping
description of a prosecutor's quasi-judicial immunity);
and Harmon v. Superior Court, 329 F.2d 154, 155 (9th
Cir.1964) (commenting that the acts complained of were
"quasi-judicial" acts, and therefore entitled to quasijudicial
immunity). But cf. Cambist Films, Inc. v.
Duggan, 475 F.2d 887, 888-89 (3d Cir. 1973)
(ambiguous per curiam in common law damage action
arising out of illegal seizure allegedly ordered by local
district attorney; seems to suggest that, even had the
action been brought under § 1983, absolute immunity
would apply to all prosecutorial behavior, regardless of
character, unless defendant [569 F.2d 21] acted "in the
clear absence of all jurisdiction").9
We find ourselves in general agreement with the
common theory underlying the first group of decisions
listed above. When a prosecutor is engaged in
essentially investigative as opposed to advocatory
activities, the considerations of public policy which
necessitated a grant of absolute immunity in Imbler no
longer control. Regardless of his official status, a
prosecutor functioning primarily as an investigator
should be accorded only the qualified immunity typically
conferred on other investigative officers. The crucial
inquiry concerns the nature of the official behavior
challenged, not the identity or title of the officer
responsible therefor. These sentiments were wellexpressed
by the Fourth Circuit in McCray v. Maryland,
456 F.2d 1 (4th Cir. 1972):
The immunity of "quasi-judicial" officers such as prosecuting
attorneys and parole board members derives, not from their formal
association with the judicial process, but from the fact that they
exercise a discretion similar to that exercised by judges. Like judges,
they require the insulation of absolute immunity to assure the
courageous exercise of their discretionary duties. Where an official
is not called upon to exercise judicial or quasi-judicial discretion,
courts have properly refused to extend to him the protection of
absolute judicial immunity, regardless of any apparent relationship
of his role to the judicial system.
456 F.2d at 3-4 (footnotes omitted).
Accepting as true the allegations of the complaint
herein, as we must in the present posture of this case,
we believe that appellant's false statement to the federal
district court in Florida is properly characterized as an
act of investigation rather than advocacy. To some
extent, of course, assignment of a particular incident to
one of several mutually exclusive abstract categories is
likely to involve an element of arbitrariness, especially
where the incident in question was clearly not
envisioned by those who originally devised the
classificatory scheme. But appellant's alleged perjury
bears no relation whatever to the advocate's role as
conceived by the Supreme Court in Imbler. The
obligation to disclose, pursuant to judicial direction, the
presence of Government informants among those
subpoenaed to testify before the grand jury is entirely
foreign to advocacy issues such as whether to initiate a
prosecution or how to conduct a prosecution once
begun. Such disclosure was, rather, an action required of
appellant by the court in order to enable the court to
deal with a possible defect in the conditions under
which subpoena compulsions had been brought to bear
in the grand jury investigation.
[569 F.2d 22] Application of only a qualified immunity
in this case cannot possibly arouse the fears which
animated the Supreme Court in Imbler, namely, that
prosecutors will be adversely affected in the discharge of
their public duties. The federal district court in Florida
sought information about one aspect of the
Government's investigation of the VVAW. Appellant
allegedly provided the court with willfully false
information about the matter, with the result that a
Government informant remained in appellees'
confidence for approximately a year longer than he
otherwise would have. We can detect nothing even
vaguely resembling advocacy in appellant's behavior.
Indeed, even the language of appellant's own motion to
dismiss in the District Court acknowledges that he was
dispatched to Florida for the purpose of conducting an
investigation. Though he asserts in conclusory fashion
that his challenged action "fall[s] squarely within the
exercise of the judicial function" (see Brief for Appellant
at 23, 35 n.15), appellant cites absolutely no authority
for the proposition that the statement of which
appellees complain was in the nature of advocacy.
Appellant has referred us to over twenty cases which
purportedly establish that "prosecutors enjoy absolute
immunity for acts done in the performance of their
official functions." Brief for Appellant at 18 & n. 9. We
have examined all these decisions and numerous others
of a similar nature, but find none of them determinative
of the dispute now before us. The cases collected by
appellant hold unanimously that a prosecutor is entitled
to absolute immunity for his quasi-judicial activities.
After Imbler, this point is incontestable. However, none
of the precedents upon which appellant relies support
his contention that the behavior at issue here falls
within the scope of the absolute quasi-judicial immunity
endorsed by the Supreme Court in Imbler. The vast
majority of cases cited involve claims arising from
prosecutorial acts which unquestionably qualify for
immunity under Imbler, e. g., the decision to initiate a
criminal prosecution or the orchestration of an ensuing
criminal trial.10 [569 F.2d 23] The combined efforts of
counsel and this court have failed to unearth a single
prior occasion on which damages have been sought for
misconduct like that alleged here.
We are aware that earlier cases in which prosecutorial
behavior has been termed investigative have involved
factual situations distinct from that currently before us.11
Nevertheless, the dissimilarities between this case and
those which have preceded it do not render the conduct
at issue here any less investigative or any more
advocatory. Appellant contends rather mechanically that
because his alleged perjury occurred in a courtroom
exchange, after a grand jury had been convened, the
description "intimately associated with the judicial
process" automatically fits. Our answer to this argument
is two-fold.
First, the timing of prosecutorial action, by itself, is not
dispositive of the immunity issue. The fact that a grand
jury is about to hear testimony or has already begun to
hear testimony does not imply that all subsequent
prosecutorial activity is ipso facto advocacy, and not
investigation. Justice Powell's penultimate footnote in
Imbler established that the advocate's role could entail
certain "actions preliminary to the initiation of a
prosecution and actions apart from the courtroom." 424
U.S. at 431 n. 33, 96 S.Ct. at 995. This does not foreclose
the fact that the investigative function may embrace
some acts even when performed after the
commencement of judicial proceedings. Attention must
be focused on the behavior itself, and not solely on its
timing. Appellant's statement to the court in Florida
does not acquire the character of advocacy merely
because it was made after the grand jury had met, rather
than several days earlier.
Secondly, and completely independent of the timing
point, we think that, in a real sense, this litigation
concerns behavior more plainly investigative than that
encountered in some of the earlier cases cited above. In
Robichaud, for example, the crucial events took place
only after the prosecutors' field of vision had already
narrowed to one crime and one prospective defendant.
A criminal complaint was filed, allegedly with malice
and without probable cause, charging the sixteen-year
old appellant with first degree murder. In due course,
she was arrested, and, allegedly under the direction of
the County Attorney and his deputy, police officials
attempted to extract a confession from her through
lengthy confinement in the "drunk tank" with adult
female prisoners, a forced visit to the scene of the crime,
and various species of deceit and intimidation. These
latter features of appellant's § 1983 complaint prompted
the Ninth Circuit's reference to investigative conduct by
prosecutors.
[569 F.2d 24] Here, by contrast, appellant's primary task
in Florida was to determine whether any violations of
federal law properly attributable to the VVAW or its
members had occurred. If any such federal crimes had
been committed, Goodwin was to ascertain the precise
nature of those crimes, and the identity of VVAW
members to whom criminal liability might attach. The
grand jury was to function in the first instance as an
investigative tool, rather than in its more familiar guise
as a deliberative body deciding whether to return
indictments for specific crimes on the basis of evidence
gathered and presented by a public prosecutor. The
grand jury proceeding in this case was designed as a
broad scale investigation into possible illegal activity by
the VVAW or its members. The Fifth Circuit in Beverly
characterized it as such by saying (at p. 735 of 468 F.2d)
that "[t]he grand jury was investigating alleged plans of
the VVAW to disrupt the Republican National
Convention in Miami, Florida, to be held the week of
August 21, in violation of various criminal statutes."
Several pieces of evidence may be adduced in support of
this proposition. First, many more VVAW members
were subpoenaed to appear before the grand jury than
were ever indicted. Second, the indictments which the
Government did obtain were returned despite the fact
that none of the VVAW members subpoenaed actually
testified. Third, appellee Briggs was subpoenaed a
month after the original group of subpoenas was issued,
and appellees Briggs and Michelson were indicted more
than three months after appellant's investigation began.
The ongoing character of the grand jury process in this
case helps to convince us that appellant had embarked
on what was fundamentally a fact-finding mission, and
that his false statement to the court, if such it was, was
intended to approve the prospects for that endeavor's
success.
We mention one further reason for our conclusion that
the absolute immunity contemplated by Imbler does not
cover this case. As Judge Leventhal observed for this
court in Apton, supra, absolute prosecutorial immunity
for behavior "intimately associated with the judicial
process" is "both justified and bounded by the judicial
traditions and procedures that limit and contain the
danger of abuse." 165 U.S.App.D.C. at 32, 506 F.2d at
93. When prosecutorial activity is properly classifiable
under the "quasi-judicial" rubric, "the circumstances
typically provide alternative instruments of the judicial
branch to check misconduct — the discretion of the
grand jury, the procedures of a trial, and the potential
sanction of discipline imposed by the court itself." Id.
165 U.S.App.D.C. at 33, 506 F.2d at 94. In theory, of
course, appellant faces both criminal and professional
penalties for any misrepresentations he may have made
to the federal district court in Florida. However, the
passage of four and a half years without any apparent
official inquiry, even by the court to which the seeming
misstatement was made, into appellants' conduct in July,
1972 underscores the fact that such restraints on
prosecutorial excesses are likely to remain theoretical
only. The demonstrably negligible probability of official
discipline thus detracts from the significance of the third
safeguard enumerated in Apton.
Even were this not so, the first two potential checks
suggested in Apton were totally absent here. As
indicated above (see the discussion of Imbler following
note 8 supra), typical civil suits against prosecuting
attorneys involve allegations of malicious prosecution,
deliberate use of false testimony, or deliberate
suppression of exculpatory evidence. In all these
situations, jury discretion is brought to bear in
evaluating the persuasiveness of the prosecution's
presentation, and defense counsel enjoys the
opportunity to employ a variety of procedural devices to
challenge the accuracy of the Government's position and
thereby to preserve the integrity of the truth-seeking
enterprise. Here, no jury assessed the credibility of
appellant's assertion that no Government informants
were included among the subpoenaed VVAW
members. In addition, appellees and their counsel were
required to accept appellant's representation on faith.
The court, which put [569 F.2d 25] the one and only
question asked, did not explore the basis for appellant's
denial that informants were present in appellees' camp,
and appellees' effort to pursue the matter further
through questioning was not permitted. Given,
therefore, not only the character of appellant's statement
as protective of the investigation so he proposed to
conduct it, but also its peculiar insulation from probing
examination and jury appraisal, we regard absolute
immunity as inappropriate in this case. It may of course
be true that appellant's answer to the court's question
was made in perfect good faith, but that is a matter open
to demonstration under qualified immunity.
IV
The dissent, stressing that the gravamen of appellees'
complaint concerns an act committed on the witness
stand, seeks to resolve the dispute before us by reference
to the common law doctrine of witness immunity. The
dissent asserts that "[i]t thus becomes necessary in these
opinions to treat both prosecutorial and witness
immunity." Whatever else may be said of this approach,
it inevitably involves consideration of subjects neither
briefed nor argued on this appeal. Presumably,
appellant's failure to raise the witness immunity point
on appeal is attributable to the District Court's refusal to
certify that matter for immediate interlocutory appeal
under 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b) (1970).12 We address it only
because the dissent treats it as dispositive.
Appellant's initial motion to dismiss, filed July 22, 1974,
alleged lack of subject matter jurisdiction and absolute
immunity from any suit based upon appellant's conduct
"while acting in his official capacity . . . as a Special
Attorney of the United States Department of Justice and
Federal prosecutor" responsible for the VVAW
investigation and grand jury proceeding. That motion
was denied by the District Court's order of November
20, 1974. Nearly a month later, appellant filed a new
motion to dismiss grounded on witness immunity. In an
order issued March 4, 1975, the District Court (1)
denied the second motion to dismiss, (2) certified the
November 20 order for interlocutory appeal under §
1292(b), and (3) expressly refused to certify for that
purpose the March 4 order involving witness immunity.
In enacting § 1292(b), Congress vested in the district
judge power to determine which orders involve
controlling questions of law appropriate for
interlocutory review. In light of this statutory scheme, it
is not surprising that government counsel representing
appellant apparently believed that the witness immunity
issue was not before this court, but rather was preserved
for ultimate review of a final judgment in this law suit.
Since § 1292(b) provides in terms for appeals from
orders, as distinct from the controlling questions of law
identified by the district judge, it has been suggested
that, when a particular order is the subject of an
interlocutory appeal under § 1292(b), all other issues
relevant to the result reached by that order should be
open for appellate consideration.13 This position is not
yet firmly established in reported decisions. Moreover,
even if we were to accept it without reservation, its
force would be substantially diminished in the present
context where the order certified for appeal is a separate
order from the one denying the witness immunity
motion.
[569 F.2d 26] We do not pursue the matter for the
reason that a majority of the panel are of the view that,
given the desirability of avoiding further proceedings in
the trial court if appellant is in fact shielded by an
absolute immunity of any kind, we may, and should,
address the witness immunity point pursuant to what
the Supreme Court has recently termed "the so-called
`collateral order' exception to the final judgment rule
first announced in Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial Loan
Corp., 337 U.S. 541, 69 S.Ct. 1221, 93 L.Ed. 1528 (1949)
. . . ," Abney v. United States, 431 U.S. 651, 657, 97 S.Ct.
2034, 2039, 52 L.Ed.2d 651 (1977) (pre-trial order
denying motion to dismiss indictment on double
jeopardy grounds appealable immediately). Since
appellant's claim of absolute witness immunity can be
said to be collateral to, and separate from, the issue of
his liability to be explored at trial, and since absolute
immunity is designed to protect against amenability to
suit itself as well as to a verdict of liability at trial, the
theoretical foundations of the collateral order doctrine,
at least as they are characterized in Abney, may be
thought to be present here.14
We turn to the merits without the customary benefit of
briefing and argument by the parties, but we doubt that
appellant would seriously undertake to maintain that he
was an ordinary witness. Although he was called upon
by the court to make a representation of fact in a
courtroom after being sworn, that act did not involve
giving testimonial evidence in the usual sense at a trial
or even before grand jurors. He was directed to do so by
the court in order promptly to get a representation from
counsel on the record under oath, and thereby to lay to
rest the legitimate claim of appellees that they were
entitled to know, before submitting to the compulsion
of the subpoenas, whether their number included
Government undercover agents.
That claim raised a question going to the very integrity
of the manner in which the grand jury proceeding was
being conducted. Had appellant volunteered to
represent as an officer of the court that no informers
were involved, and had the parties been content with
that, there would be no issue as to witness immunity
worthy of the name. The difference between the falsity
of such a nontestimonial representation, on the one
hand, and the technical consequence of perjury attached
to a statement under oath, on the other, is not at the
heart of the immunity issue in this appeal. The question
is whether appellant is wholly immune from a civil suit
based upon his utterance of an allegedly false statement
in the context of countering a challenge to the manner
in which he was conducting a grand jury inquiry.
The statement assailed here was prompted by, and
directly incidental to, appellant's status as a prosecutor
managing and administering an investigation.
Appellant's unqualified negative response to the district
judge's plain and abrupt question was essential to the
forward progress of the grand [569 F.2d 27] jury
investigation, for which appellant as a federal prosecutor
had been charged by his superiors with the
responsibility. To the extent that appellant's one word
answer is viewed as a testimonial act, it was one
occasioned by, and critical to, appellant's discharge of
that responsibility.
The dissent thus is unrealistic in treating appellant not
as a prosecutor managing and directing an investigation
but rather as an ordinary witness summoned to give his
evidence in a legal proceeding. It is obvious from the
transcript that the court did not consider appellant to be
an ordinary witness. It ordered him to take the stand; it
asked him one question; and it forthwith excused him.
Indeed, when appellees' counsel sought leave to crossexamine,
the court denied it. The policies underlying the
common law doctrine of witness immunity are
tangential, and essentially irrelevant, to the question of
whether appellant — a prosecutor functioning in an
investigative context — should be accorded complete
invulnerability to suit for the consequences of an act
performed in that capacity.
Our holding on this aspect of the appeal rests on the
foregoing considerations, and it is, accordingly, of a
piece with what we have said earlier in this opinion
with respect to the prosecutorial immunity issue
certified by the District Court. If we have misconceived
the precise scope of Imbler, then our finding of
qualified, as distinct from absolute, immunity on the
facts of this case will fall. But that result, in our
submission, will not be because appellant's answer to the
question put to him by the court was given from the
witness stand. It will be because that act will be deemed,
even under the special circumstances of this case, not to
come within the prosecutorial administrative and
investigative functions reserved by Imbler.
Having thus made clear that in our view this record in
truth raised no issue of witness immunity to be certified
by the District Court as "a controlling question of law as
to which there is substantial ground for difference of
opinion," and that the resolution of this uncertified
question is encompassed in our holding on the certified
question, it remains appropriate to append our
reservations about the indiscriminate claims made by
the dissent for common law witness immunity.
First, the immunity of witnesses at common law was
not as monolithic as the dissent might suggest. The
comprehensive rule announced by Lord Mansfield in
1772 and reproduced in the dissent was not borrowed in
its entirety by the majority of American jurisdictions.
While most American courts do speak of an absolute
witness immunity, they commonly temper the reach of
their decisions by imposing a supplementary
requirement of pertinency or relevancy. See, e. g., Myers
v. Hodges, 53 Fla. 197, 208-09, 44 So. 357, 361 (1907).
("In the United States, according to the overwhelming
weight of authority, in order that defamatory words,
published by parties, counsel, or witnesses in the due
course of judicial procedure, may be absolutely
privileged, they must be connected with or relevant or
material to the cause in hand or subject of inquiry");
McDavitt v. Boyer, 169 Ill. 475, 48 N.E. 317 (1897);
Barnes v. McCrate, 32 Me. 442 (1851), and Cooley v.
Galyon, 109 Tenn. 1, 70 S.W. 607 (1902).
We cite these authorities not to imply that appellant's
answer in this case was not responsive to the judge's
question, but only to indicate that the more extreme
English rule espoused by Lord Mansfield was not
wholeheartedly embraced by most American
jurisdictions. Furthermore, despite the broad and
dogmatic language employed by many American courts,
one does encounter occasional common law opinions
which cast some doubt upon the extent to which
absolute witness immunity protects knowingly false
testimony. See, e. g., Liles v. Gaster, 42 Ohio St. 631, 636
(1885) ("What [a witness'] liability . . . may be, if he was
guilty of intentional falsehood, and actual malice, we
need not here determine, as the case made does not
require it").
We observe further that the dissent does not refer us to
cases which establish the existence and scope of witness
immunity [569 F.2d 28] under federal common law.15 As
noted earlier (see note 8 supra), even where common
law torts are alleged, the immunity to be conferred on
federal officials is governed by a federal standard, which
need not be identical to the standard applied in a
particular state or even in the majority of states.
Finally, it is far from clear that, as the dissent asserts, a
witness should enjoy the same measure of immunity,
regardless of whether the wrong of which he is accused
rises to constitutional dimension. Whatever the precise
nature of the immunity accorded to witnesses at
common law, that immunity applies without distinction
to any individual serving as a witness in a judicial
proceeding. On the other hand, where a constitutional
infringement is alleged, the defendant-witness will
almost invariably be a Government official. (At
minimum, the "under color of law" requirement will
assure some direct government involvement in the
challenged testimony.) This is a crucial difference. Policy
considerations counselling the insulation of private
citizens from civil liability arising from their
performance as witnesses do not apply with equal force
when a complaint charges that constitutional rights
have been violated by a public employee operating from
the witness stand.
The unique importance of constitutional rights hardly
needs restatement. Both Congress and the Supreme
Court have created special causes of action to provide a
remedy for official misconduct which infringes
constitutionally protected interests. Given this notably
solicitous attitude toward the effectuation of
constitutional guarantees, it can be asserted with both
reason and authority that absolute immunity is not to be
extended to the constitutional tort context absent the
most compelling justification.
Indeed, in Scheuer v. Rhodes, supra, the Supreme Court,
confronted with two of its own decisions which
accorded federal executive officials absolute immunity
from common law damage actions, nevertheless granted
only a qualified immunity to highlevel state executive
officials sued for constitutional violations under § 1983.
See 416 U.S. at 247, 94 S.Ct. 1683. Extensive discussion
of this point may be found in Judge Celebrezze's dissent
from the Sixth Circuit's opinion in the same case,
Krause v. Rhodes, 471 F.2d 430, 453-59 (6th Cir. 1972),
rev'd, 416 U.S. 232, 94 S.Ct. 1683, 40 L.Ed.2d 90 (1974).
See also States Marine Lines, Inc. v. Shultz, 498 F.2d
1146, 1159 n. 12 (4th Cir. 1974); Norton v. McShane,
332 F.2d 855, 860-61 (5th Cir. 1964); Burkhart v. Saxbe,
397 F.Supp. 499, 502 n. 3 (E.D.Pa.1975); and Note,
Damages for Federal Employment Discrimination:
Section 1981 and Qualified Executive Immunity, 85 Yale
L.J. 517-518 & n.54 (1976). But see Brawer v. Horowitz,
535 F.2d 830, 836-37 (3d Cir. 1976) (witness immunity
issue only reached after court assumed that private
citizen testifying for federal government in criminal
prosecution would be amenable to Bivens-type suit
seeking damages for deprivation of constitutional rights
by a federal official); Fidtler v. Rundle, 497 F.2d 794, 798
(3d Cir. 1974); Johnson v. Alldredge, 488 F.2d 820, 826-
27 (3d Cir. 1973), cert. denied, 419 U.S. 882, 95 S.Ct.
148, 42 L.Ed.2d 122 (1974); Bauers v. Heisel, 361 F.2d
581, 586-91 (3d Cir. 1965) (en banc), cert. denied, 386
U.S. 1021, 87 S.Ct. 1367, 18 L.Ed.2d 457 (1967), and
Hahn v. Sargent, 388 F.Supp. 445, 452 (D.Mass.), aff'd
on other grounds, 523 F.2d 461, 467 (1st Cir. 1975),
cert. denied, 425 U.S. 904, 96 S.Ct. 1495, 47 L.Ed.2d 754
(1976).
[569 F.2d 29] Even where the Supreme Court has
followed the common law example in determining that
absolute immunity is appropriate in a constitutional tort
setting, the Court has explicitly recognized that it was in
no way bound by precedent to reach the result it did.
See, e. g., Imbler, supra, 424 U.S. at 424, 96 S.Ct. 984;
Pierson, supra, 386 U.S. at 554-55, 87 S.Ct. 1213; and
Tenney v. Brandhove, 341 U.S. 367, 376, 71 S.Ct. 783,
95 L.Ed. 1019 (1951).
Since, for the reasons outlined above, we do not believe
that appellant is protected by the absolute prosecutorial
immunity described in Imbler, and since we are unable
to join in the dissent's interpretation of the impact of
witness immunity on this case, the November 20, 1974
order of the District Court denying appellant's motion
to dismiss is affirmed.
It is so ordered.