This is one of 15 similar actions pending in the First
Department seeking to recover from pharmaceutical
companies for injuries allegedly sustained by the
plaintiff daughters as a result of their mothers' ingestion
of the drug diethylstilbestrol (DES) while pregnant. In
1977 the Assistant Administrative Justice designated the
actions as "complex litigation cases" and assigned them
to Justice Arnold Fraiman, directing him to handle all
matters relating to them. The first of the 15 actions
chosen to be tried was Bichler v Lilly & Co. (55 N.Y.2d
571) and the rest were held pending its disposition. The
principal issue in this appeal is the collateral estoppel
effect to be given to certain jury findings in that action.
After we sustained a jury verdict against Lilly in Bichler,
plaintiff moved for partial summary judgment
precluding Lilly from relitigating six issues decided by
the Bichler jury, a severance of the action against Lilly
and an immediate trial on the issues of DES ingestion,
causation and damages. Lilly cross-moved to depose two
of the jurors in the Bichler case to establish that their
verdict was a compromise. The remaining defendants
cross-moved for a severance in the event the court
granted plaintiff's motion for collateral estoppel against
Lilly. Special Term granted plaintiff's motion for partial
summary judgment, denied Lilly's cross motion and
granted the codefendants' motions for a severance. A
divided Appellate Division affirmed and granted Lilly
leave to appeal to this court on a certified question. We
now modify the order of the Appellate Division and
hold that Lilly may not be collaterally estopped from
relitigating the jury's finding that it acted in concert
with other drug manufacturers in testing and marketing
DES for use in treating accidents of pregnancy. Our
modification is required because the concerted action
liability found in Bichler was based on an unresolved
question of law which should not be given preclusive
effect in this litigation.
I
In early 1954, plaintiff's mother, then pregnant with her,
was prescribed DES to prevent a miscarriage. In July
1973, when 
[65 N.Y.2d 454]
 plaintiff was 18 years old, it
was discovered that plaintiff had cancer of the cervix. A
radical hysterectomy was performed and, as a result,
plaintiff will be unable to bear children. She instituted
this action in 1976 alleging in her amended complaint
that her mother's ingestion of DES while pregnant was
the proximate cause of the injuries she sustained.
Because she was unable to clearly identify the
manufacturer of the DES her mother took, plaintiff
joined as defendants nine of the approximately 147
pharmaceutical companies manufacturing and
marketing DES for the prevention of miscarriages in
pregnant women in 1954. She alleged that the
defendants were liable to her, inter alia, on a concerted
action theory of liability because they had "combined
and conspired to obtain the approval for DES" without
adequate testing.
The Bichler action involved a young woman who
developed cervical and vaginal cancer at the age of 17.
She brought suit against Eli Lilly & Company and
others, alleging that her mother's ingestion of DES in
1953 while she was pregnant with her caused her
injuries. Plaintiff's theory was that DES had been
marketed without adequate testing to determine its
safety. After the plaintiff was unsuccessful in attempting
to prove that Lilly manufactured the DES prescribed for
her mother, she submitted her case to the jury on a
concerted action theory of liability. In addition to
returning a general verdict for plaintiff, the Bichler jury
answered seven special interrogatories in her favor as a
basis for imposing liability on Lilly.
1 
 On appeal the
Appellate Division and this court affirmed. The courts
below 
[65 N.Y.2d 455]
 gave collateral estoppel effect in
this action to six of the Bichler jury's findings.
2
Lilly raises three grounds for reversal of the order
granting that relief. First, it contends that the decision in
Bichler should not be given collateral estoppel effect
because (1) the cases do not raise identical issues, (2)
there are indications that the Bichler verdict was based
on jury compromise, (3) there are adjudications
inconsistent with Bichler on each of the issues involved
and (4) the Bichler decision is based on an unresolved
and novel application of the law of concerted action not
expressly adopted in New York. Second, Lilly asserts
that if we find its proof of jury compromise in Bichler
insufficient as it now exists to defeat the application of
collateral estoppel, it should be allowed to depose two
named jurors from the Bichler jury to demonstrate
further its contention. Finally, Lilly urges that the lower
court erred in severing plaintiff's action against it from
actions against the remaining defendants.
II
The doctrine of collateral estoppel precludes a party
from relitigating "an issue which has previously been
decided against him in a proceeding in which he had a
fair opportunity to fully litigate the point" (Gilberg v
Barbieri, 53 N.Y.2d 285, 291; see, Schwartz v Public
Administrator, 24 N.Y.2d 65, 69). It is a doctrine
intended to reduce litigation and conserve the resources
of the court and litigants and it is based upon the general
notion that it is not fair to permit a party to relitigate an
issue that has already been decided against it. There are
now but two requirements which must be satisfied
before the doctrine is invoked. First, the identical issue
necessarily must have been decided in the prior action
and be decisive of the present action, and second, the
party to be precluded from relitigating the issue must
have had a full and fair opportunity to contest the prior
determination (Gilberg v Barbieri, supra, at p 291;
Schwartz v Public Administrator, supra, at p 71; see,
Koch v Consolidated Edison Co., 62 N.Y.2d 548, 554-
555, cert denied ___ US ___, 105 S.Ct. 1177; 
[65 N.Y.2d
456]
 Ryan v New York Tel. Co., 62 N.Y.2d 494, 500-
501). The party seeking the benefit of collateral estoppel
has the burden of demonstrating the identity of the
issues in the present litigation and the prior
determination, whereas the party attempting to defeat
its application has the burden of establishing the absence
of a full and fair opportunity to litigate the issue in the
prior action (see, Ryan v New York Tel. Co., supra, at p
501; Schwartz v Public Administrator, supra, at p 73).
Applying these rules, we hold that collateral estoppel
effect should be denied for the Bichler jury's finding on
concerted action but that Lilly should be precluded from
relitigating the five remaining issues relevant to this
action and decided adversely to it in that trial (see, n 2,
at p 455, supra).
A
When Bichler was before this court Lilly challenged the
concerted action theory of liability on two grounds. It
claimed that it was not an appropriate theory of liability
in DES litigation when the identity of the manufacturer
is not established and that the court's charge on the
theory was erroneous. Although both of these issues
could have been raised by appropriate objection in the
trial court, they were not, and because they were not, we
did not pass on them. We held only that the evidence
was legally sufficient to support the jury's findings of
concerted action and foreseeability based on the charge
given and that the trial court did not err in refusing
Lilly's request to charge on its duty to warn (see, Bichler
v Lilly & Co., 55 N.Y.2d 571, 584-587, supra). We noted
in a footnote that there were several theories upon
which similar DES cases were proceeding or it had been
suggested they might proceed but we expressed no view
in Bichler and, express none now, on which of the
proposed theories — concerted action, alternative
liability, enterprise liability or market share liability — if
any, should be adopted in this or similar DES cases (see,
Bichler v Lilly & Co., supra, at p 580, n 5). The question
is still an open one in New York.
The point is significant because collateral estoppel effect
will only be given to matters "actually litigated and
determined" in a prior action (see, Restatement
[Second] of Judgments 
§
 27, quoted in Koch v
Consolidated Edison Co., 62 N.Y.2d 548, 554, n 2; see
also, Ryan v New York Tel. Co., 62 N.Y.2d 494, supra).
If the issue has not been litigated, there is no identity of
issues between the present action and the prior
determination. An issue is not actually litigated if, for
example, there has been a 
[65 N.Y.2d 457]
 default, a
confession of liability, a failure to place a matter in issue
by proper pleading or even because of a stipulation (see,
Restatement [Second] of Judgments 
§
 27 comments d, e,
at 255-257; see also, Gilberg v Barbieri, 53 N.Y.2d 285,
supra). Because Lilly did not challenge the
appropriateness of the concerted action theory in
Bichler, it was not actually litigated and there is no
identity between that issue in Bichler and here.
Although it may seem a paradox that we should permit
defendant to benefit in this litigation because of its
failure to challenge concerted action in the prior
litigation, the policy reasons for refusing to do so
outweigh the reasons for limiting litigation on the issue.
It is of paramount importance that the courts establish
and develop the law in this emerging area of mass tort
liability, rather than permit it to be fixed, even in this
limited number of DES actions, on the basis of the law
of the case. The need for uniformity and certainty
mandates that in such cases collateral estoppel should be
rejected (see, Schwartz v Public Administrator, 24
N.Y.2d 65, 72, supra; Restatement [Second] of
Judgments 
§
 28 comment b, at 275-276; see, id. 
§
 29 [7]
and comment i, at 292, 297). This is particularly so
when the other defendants will be free to claim, against
this same plaintiff, that concerted action is not an
appropriate theory of liability and thereby cause
inconsistent results.
B
The fact that no exception was taken to the charge on
concerted action, however, has no bearing on the factual
issues resolved by the jury when it answered the
remaining interrogatories and Lilly should be precluded
from relitigating them. Identity of issues does exist as to
them because the legal theory in both actions is the same
and because there are no significant factual differences
between them. The plaintiff in Bichler, the first of the
15 related cases chosen to be tried, sought to establish
Lilly's negligence in testing and marketing DES. The
issues Lilly will be precluded from relitigating in this
case relate solely to the facts underlying its negligence in
testing, questions found against it by the Bichler jury
and questions which are also involved in this case.
Moreover, both plaintiffs' mothers ingested DES in the
same time period (1953-1954), both plaintiffs were born
in 1954 within seven months of each other and both
developed cancer of the cervix and/or vagina at
approximately the same age. The issue of proximate
cause has been specifically deleted from the Bichler
interrogatories by plaintiff's motion 
[65 N.Y.2d 458]
 and
Lilly will have the opportunity to demonstrate that
plaintiff's injuries were not caused by her mother's
ingestion of DES due to minor differences between the
plaintiffs or the circumstances surrounding their
mothers' ingestion of DES. Thus, the appeal fits the
example described by Professors James and Hazard of an
instance in which there are several similar cases and the
first tried is "roughly typical" of the rest. In that
situation, the professors noted, it is not unfair to
preclude the defendant from retrying the issues
previously litigated and decided adversely to it (James &
Hazard, Civil Procedure 
§
 11.24, at 581 [2d ed]).
Similarly unpersuasive is Lilly's assertion that the
Bichler verdict is not entitled to collateral estoppel effect
because there are indications it was the result of jury
compromise. Although indications of jury compromise
is one factor properly to be considered in determining
whether a party against whom collateral estoppel is
sought had a full and fair opportunity to litigate the
issues in the prior determination (see, Koch v
Consolidated Edison Co., 62 N.Y.2d 548, 555, n 4, supra,
quoting Schwartz v Public Administrator, 24 N.Y.2d 65,
72, supra), the evidence offered to defeat application of
the doctrine in this case is insufficient. Lilly relies only
on inadmissible hearsay allegations contained in an
affidavit of its former attorney in which he alleges that
he interviewed three Bichler jurors immediately after
the verdict and that one of them told him there had been
a compromise and on Lilly's speculation that a
compromise resulted because the jury returned its
verdict after five days of apparently hopeless deadlock.
As we recently emphasized in Koch, evidence of this
nature is not sufficient to defeat a motion for partial
summary judgment on collateral estoppel grounds (see,
Koch v Consolidated Edison Co., supra, at p 557).
Finally, although adjudications on the same issue
inconsistent with the one to be given preclusive effect
are relevant evidence that the party contesting estoppel
did not have a fair opportunity to litigate the prior
determination and may be a factor in refusing to apply
the doctrine of collateral estoppel (see, id., at p 555, and
n 4, quoting Restatement [Second] of Judgments 
§
 29
[4]), the cases relied on by Lilly do not support that
result here. Those cited include generally cases in which
the jury returned a verdict for Lilly on a failure to warn
theory
3 
 and 
[65 N.Y.2d 459]
 others in which the court
granted Lilly judgment either because concerted action
was an inappropriate legal theory for DES litigation or
because the evidence was insufficient to raise a factual
issue on concerted action.
4 
 Those in the first group are
not inconsistent with the Bichler jury's responses to the
interrogatories finding Lilly negligent on a theory of
inadequate testing. The second group, cases involving
summary judgment and directed verdicts in Lilly's favor,
support Lilly's contention that it should not be estopped
from contesting liability on the theory of concerted
action but we have found in its favor on that issue on
other grounds. Thus, contrary to its contentions, those
cases provide no basis for permitting Lilly to relitigate
the remaining issues involving Lilly's negligence. In only
one case cited by Lilly did a jury return a verdict
inconsistent with Bichler on the issue of inadequate
testing (see, Barros v Squibb & Sons, Civ Act No. 75-
1226 [ED Pa 1976]). Lilly relies on that decision and
claims the benefit of that jury determination although it
was not a party to the litigation. We find no basis to
nullify the jury findings in Bichler, the first case tried of
the several pending before Justice Fraiman and a case in
which Lilly participated fully, on the basis of the Squibb
verdict, a case in which it did not participate at all. Lilly
can hardly claim that the Squibb determination provides
any indication that it lacked a full and fair opportunity
to defend against the issues decided adversely to it in
Bichler.
[65 N.Y.2d 460]
 III
Two other matters remain for our consideration.
Notwithstanding the insufficiency of its evidence to
support a finding of a compromise verdict in Bichler,
Lilly contends that it should be allowed to depose two
Bichler jurors in order to further substantiate its claim.
It asserts that our firm rule against impeaching a verdict
in the action in which it was rendered is inapplicable
here when its attack is not for the purpose of impairing
the Bichler verdict but for the purpose of preventing
collateral estoppel effect to be given it. The policy
reasons behind the rule are to prevent "the posttrial
harassing of jurors for statements which might render
their verdicts questionable" and to avoid the chaos that a
contrary rule would create (People v De Lucia, 20
N.Y.2d 275, 278; see, McDonald v Pless, 238 U.S. 264,
267-268; King v United States, 576 F.2d 432, 438 [2d
Cir]). They are equally applicable to this case. Moreover,
it is not insignificant that the desire to depose the jurors
is intended to impair the effect of factual findings made
in the first of several related cases selected for trial.
Finally, we cannot find that the trial court abused its
discretion as a matter of law in severing plaintiff's action
against Lilly from her action against the other
defendants, particularly in light of the obvious prejudice
the other defendants would suffer if they were forced to
litigate the action with Lilly despite our conclusion that
it is precluded from relitigating the findings of
negligence as made in Bichler.
Accordingly, the order of the Appellate Division should
be modified by denying plaintiff summary judgment as
to the collateral estoppel effect of the Bichler jury's
finding that defendant Lilly and other drug
manufacturers acted in concert in testing and marketing
DES for use in treating accidents in pregnancy
(interrogatory No. 7) and, as so modified, the order
should be affirmed. The certified question is answered
in the negative.
Order modified, without costs, in accordance with the
opinion herein and, as so modified, affirmed. Question
certified answered in the negative.