This matter is before the Court on plaintiffs’ motion to
impose sanctions for defendants’ failure to answer certain
interrogatories pursuant to Rule 37(d), Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure.
On December 12, 1974 plaintiffs served interrogatories on
defendants, including the three interrogatories which are
the subject of this motion. On March 5, 1976 this Court
granted plaintiffs’ motion to compel answers to the
interrogatories and ordered defendants to answer on or
before March 30, 1976.
Defendants answered the interrogatory seeking the
identities of 180 confidential informants by stating that
some identity records were destroyed between May and
August, 1974 and others in November, 1974. Defendants
answered interrogatories seeking data about information
dissemination beyond the Intelligence Division of the
Chicago Police Department by stating that dissemination
records were destroyed after a one-year holding period
and that the most current records of information
dissemination could not be found. Plaintiffs allege that
defendants failed to produce any authorizations for the
destruction of records as outlined above.
Plaintiffs argue that defendants’ answers to these
interrogatories are incomplete and must be treated as
failures to answer under Rule 37(a)(3). Plaintiffs therefore
argue that this Court should impose sanctions.
Defendants respond that plaintiffs have not established
that there was anything improper about the fact that no
written documents exist and none can be found.
Defendants argue that plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions
admits that defendants answered the interrogatories and
therefore plaintiffs cannot validly express dissatisfaction
with those answers by a motion for sanctions. This Court
does not agree.
Rule 37(a)(3) provides that:
For purposes of this subdivision an
evasive or incomplete answer is to be
treated as a failure to answer.
The Advisory Committee notes to Rule 37 state that:
Rule 37 provides generally for sanctions against parties or
persons unjustifiably resisting discovery.
(F)lexibility as to sanctions eliminates any need to retain
the requirement that failure to . . . respond be “wilful”.
[1] Upon careful examination of these interrogatories and
defendants’ answers, this Court concludes that the
answers given by defendants were both “incomplete” and
“evasive” within the meaning of Rule 37. Defendant
Walter Murphy’s sworn answers to these interrogatories
refer only to the unavailability of information because
certain documents were not available, but make no
mention of defendant’s personal knowledge of the
information sought. This Court finds that interrogatory
answers which are limited to information affiant obtained
from documents and which make no statement as to
affiant’s personal knowledge of facts which the
documents would have revealed are both incomplete and
evasive. This Court must therefore assume that affiant had
personal knowledge of the facts but did not swear to
anything more than the fact that documents were
unavailable. Such interrogatory answers are unacceptable.
[2] This Court is further convinced that defendants’
document destruction between May and November, 1974
makes it impossible for plaintiffs to obtain definitive
answers to the interrogatories. While the destruction of
documents here in issue occurred before suit was filed in
November, 1974, plaintiffs have convincingly
demonstrated that defendants obtained reports that
plaintiffs were about to file suit from paid informants who
infiltrated plaintiff Alliance to End Repression. One such
informant warned defendants:
Note: it seems this time they are
finally ready to proceed with the law
suit. It would only seem reasonable
that any steps that can be taken to
prepare for the possible problems
should be taken as soon as possible. It
may be too late if postponed. (Exhibit
B, Plaintiffs’ Reply Memorandum on
Motion for Sanctions)
Defendants have nowhere stated that document
destruction here in issue was in the ordinary course of
business nor have they shown any written authorization
for that destruction.
The destruction of documents before suit and defendant
Murphy’s failure to answer interrogatories from personal
knowledge renders useless plaintiffs’ attempt to obtain
meaningful answers to interrogatories on the issues of
identity of confidential informants and of information
dissemination by the Intelligence Division. This Court
therefore finds that plaintiffs are entitled to sanctions for
defendants’ failure to answer interrogatories in a
meaningful way.
[3] This Court concludes that defendants must be
prohibited from introducing as evidence at trial any
documents which they now allege to be lost or destroyed.
In addition to prohibiting the use of these unavailable
documents at trial, there is need for a sanction which
protects plaintiffs’ ability to prove allegations of
infiltration and information dissemination and protect
defendants’ ability to rebut plaintiffs’ allegations.
Treating allegations of the complaint as true because of
defendants’ failure to comply with discovery does not
allow defendants to rebut those allegations.
In order to protect the parties’ right to prove their
respective contentions, this Court follows the approach
taken by the District Court for the District of Columbia in
Black v. United States, 389 F.Supp. 529 (1975). In that
case, plaintiff alleged that defendant’s unlawful electronic
surveillance and dissemination of information damaged
him financially. The Court was faced with defendant’s
failure to produce logs kept on the electronic surveillance
of plaintiff.
The Court recognized competing interests, i. e., that the
withheld documents constituted necessary proof in
plaintiff’s case and that defendant intended to show that
plaintiff’s damage was caused by intervening and
superceding causes. The Court balanced the interests of
the parties and ordered that it be deemed established for
trial that plaintiff made a prima facie showing of
causation in fact. Defendants were free to rebut that case
by introducing evidence on their own behalf.
This Court believes that a similar balancing of interests
should occur here. Because of the unavailability of
information about the names of confidential informants
and about information dissemination beyond the
Intelligence Division, plaintiffs will be unable to prove
the allegations of paragraphs 82, 96, and 97 of their
complaint. It is therefore ordered that paragraphs 82, 96,
and 97 of plaintiffs’ complaint be admitted prima facie.
Defendants have the burden of rebutting the allegations of
these paragraphs to show that they did not:
Disseminate derogatory information to Chicago Tribune
reporter Ronald Koziol in order to smear and defame . . .
plaintiffs in a major newspaper at specified dates. (See
Paragraph 82, plaintiffs’ complaint)
Regularly assign informers and undercover police officers
to infiltrate political, community, religious, and social
organizations to report on and monitor the activities of
such organizations and their members. (See Paragraph 96,
plaintiffs’ complaint)
Instruct informers and undercover agents to provoke,
encourage, and solicit members of the target organization
to participate in unlawful activities. (See Paragraph 97,
plaintiffs’ complaint)
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, and for the reasons hereinbefore set forth,
the Court finds and holds that plaintiffs have made a
prima facie showing as to Paragraphs 82, 96, and 97 of
the complaint. It is ordered that defendants have the
burden of showing that they have not engaged in the
activities therein described.