In the world of personal injury litigation, defendants
will sometimes conduct videotaped surveillance seeking
to verify the extent of plaintiffs' injuries or to establish
that plaintiffs have feigned or exaggerated them. We
addressed these kinds of surveillance tapes in DiMichel
v South Buffalo Ry. Co. (80 N.Y.2d 184 [1992]) and
concluded that the plaintiffs could gain pretrial access to
them, but only after they had submitted to depositions.
Soon after our decision in DiMichel, the Legislature
enacted CPLR 3101 (i), which mandates "full disclosure
of any films, photographs, video tapes or audio tapes"
involving a party to the action. On this appeal we must
decide whether DiMichel's pronouncement as to the
timing of videotape disclosure survives the enactment of
section 3101 (i).
I.
According to the complaint and deposition testimony,
plaintiff Tai Tran, a hibachi chef, injured his left palm
when he fell while working at a restaurant. He received
emergency medical care at defendant New Rochelle
Hospital Medical Center. The Hospital then referred
plaintiff to defendant William D. Mahoney, a surgeon
who performed follow-up treatment and eventually
advised plaintiff that he could return to work, which he
did. About two years later, plaintiff allegedly suffered
another on-the-job injury to his left hand. Attributing
this second injury to weakness caused by the initial
injury, plaintiff, and his wife derivatively, commenced
this action against New Rochelle Hospital, Dr. Mahoney
and others, claiming that they failed properly to
diagnose and treat his original injury.
At a pretrial examination, plaintiff testified that the
condition of his hand had deteriorated to the point
where he could no longer work at the restaurant, and
that one of his treating physicians advised him against
doing so. Based on this testimony, defendants sought
plaintiff's income and employment records to determine
whether he had returned to work 
[99 N.Y.2d 386]
despite the doctor's advice. When they learned that
plaintiff had in fact resumed work, defendants sought an
order compelling him to appear for another deposition,
to which plaintiff objected.
At about the same time, plaintiff learned that defendants
had videotaped him surreptitiously, and he moved for
disclosure of the tapes. Defendants resisted, arguing that
they should not be required to produce the tapes until
after plaintiff submitted to a further deposition.
Supreme Court granted defendants' motion to depose
plaintiff, but in a second order granted plaintiff's motion
for disclosure of the videotapes before the deposition,
determining that CPLR 3101 (i) compelled immediate
disclosure. Defendants appealed from Supreme Court's
second order.
The Appellate Division reversed and ruled that the tapes
were discoverable only after plaintiff was deposed.
Acknowledging that two of the other Appellate Division
Departments had held that plaintiffs were entitled to
discovery on demand,
1 
 the Court determined that the
enactment of CPLR 3101 (i) did nothing to upset
DiMichel's conclusion that surveillance tapes need not
be produced until after a plaintiff is deposed. In its order
of reversal, the Court directed that plaintiff submit to a
second deposition before gaining access to the
surveillance tapes.
The Appellate Division thereafter granted plaintiff leave
to appeal to this Court pursuant to CPLR 5602 (b) (1),
and certified the following question pursuant to CPLR
5713: "Was the order of this Court, which reversed the
order of the Supreme Court, properly made?" For the
reasons that follow, we answer the certified question in
the negative.
II.
In deciding DiMichel, we addressed whether
"surveillance films prepared by a defendant in a personal
injury action are discoverable by the plaintiff before
trial" (80 NY2d at 189-190). The Court first concluded
that pursuant to CPLR 3101 (d) (2) surveillance tapes
are materials "prepared in anticipation of litigation" and
are therefore subject to a qualified privilege "that can be
overcome only by a factual showing of substantial 
[99
N.Y.2d 387]
 need and undue hardship" (id. at 196). We
recognized that surveillance tapes, when properly
authenticated, can be powerful evidence against
plaintiffs who are videotaped while engaging in physical
activities that contradict their claimed injuries. Graphic
depictions of that type will undo the plaintiff who
complains that he can't walk, unaware that he has been
filmed playing rugby. We observed that defendants have
a strong interest in withholding these evidentiary
materials until trial to eliminate the possibility that
plaintiffs will tailor their testimony to conform to the
tapes.
The Court was equally sensitive, however, to the danger
that surveillance tapes can be easily altered and therefore
contaminate the trial process, much to the detriment of
plaintiffs. Moreover, denying plaintiffs pretrial access to
the videotapes creates undue hardship because "[o]nly
by observing the conditions as they appear on film can
the plaintiffs respond to possible distortions or prepare
to explain seeming inconsistencies to the jury" (id. at
197). These particular concerns led us to conclude that
the plaintiffs in DiMichel had made the requisite
showing under CPLR 3101 (d) (2) of substantial need
and undue hardship, and were thus entitled to view the
tapes before trial.
To balance the competing interests at stake—namely, a
defendant's desire to withhold tapes to prevent tailored
testimony and a plaintiff's need to obtain pretrial access
for authentication—we crafted an accommodation by
which surveillance tapes should be turned over before
trial, but only after a plaintiff has been deposed.
Less than a year after DiMichel, the Legislature enacted
CPLR 3101 (i). It provides, in relevant part:
"In addition to any other matter which may be subject to disclosure,
there shall be full disclosure of any films, photographs, video tapes
or audio tapes, including transcripts or memoranda thereof,
involving a [party]. There shall be disclosure of all portions of such
material, including out-takes, rather than only those portions a
party intends to use."
The question now before us is whether section 3101 (i)
overrules that aspect of DiMichel which allows
defendants to withhold surveillance tapes until after a
plaintiff has been deposed. Plaintiff argues that section
3101 (i)'s "full disclosure" requirement gives him the
right to obtain any surveillance material on demand.
Defendants contend that in enacting section 3101 
[99
N.Y.2d 388]
 (i) the Legislature sought to expand the
scope of discovery, but not to override DiMichel's
timing rule.
III.
We note, at the outset of our analysis, that the plain
language of section 3101 (i) eliminates any qualified
privilege that previously attached to surveillance tapes
under DiMichel. Under the new provision, surveillance
tapes (and other specified materials) are subject to "full
disclosure." Thus, parties seeking disclosure of any of
the specified items under section 3101 (i) need not make
a showing of "substantial need" and "undue hardship."
Moreover, section 3101 (i)'s "full disclosure"
requirement is not limited to materials a party intends
to use at trial. The provision compels disclosure of all
the listed materials—including "out-takes"—whether or
not they will be used at trial (see CPLR 3101 [i]).
2
On its face, therefore, CPLR 3101 (i) significantly alters
DiMichel. Critical to this appeal, however, is what
section 3101 (i) does not articulate, notably, the timing
of disclosure. In particular, subdivision (i) does not
speak to whether a plaintiff must submit to a deposition
before obtaining disclosure of any surveillance tapes.
The Second, Third and Fourth Departments have all
interpreted this silence to mean that the Legislature did
not intend to codify the timing aspect of DiMichel (see
Falk, 299 A.D.2d 120; Rotundi, 263 A.D.2d 84;
DiNardo, 252 A.D.2d 69). We agree. Our holding in
DiMichel—that once a plaintiff undergoes a deposition
the defendant must turn over any surveillance tapes it
intends to use at trial—rested heavily on the premise
that surveillance tapes were subject to a qualified
privilege under section 3101 (d) (2) (see DiMichel, 80
NY2d at 190). That privilege, in turn, was one of the
two competing interests that informed DiMichel's
timing rule. In removing surveillance tapes from the
reach of CPLR 3101 (d) (2), the Legislature eliminated
the qualified privilege to which videotapes were
previously subject. In so doing, it undercut one of the
main supports underlying DiMichel. In short, the timing
rule lost its statutory moorings when the Legislature
removed videotapes and the like from the strictures of
section 3101 (d) (2).
[99 N.Y.2d 389]
 Even more revealing, however, is the
placement of subdivision (i) within the statutory
scheme. After DiMichel, the Legislature chose to create
an entirely new subdivision within section 3101 to deal
exclusively with videotapes and similar materials. We
must assume that the Legislature was fully aware that
the timing rule we announced in DiMichel was
premised on surveillance tapes falling within section
3101 (d) (2) (see Hammelburger v Foursome Inn Corp.,
54 N.Y.2d 580 [1981]; McKinney's Cons Laws of NY,
Book 1, Statutes 
§
 191). Indeed, it is evident that the
Legislature enacted section 3101 (i) in reaction to
DiMichel.
3 
 The Legislature's decision to create this
separate subdivision, subject to no qualified privilege
and imposing no express timing requirement, satisfies
us that the lawmakers did not intend to adopt the
DiMichel timing rule.
Moreover, two groups opposed enactment of section
3101 (i) precisely because "nothing in [that provision]
would limit disclosure, as the Court of Appeals held was
appropriate, until after [a] plaintiff has been deposed"
(Mem of Comm on Civil Practice Law and Rules, Bill
Jacket, L 1993, ch 574; see also Mem of Glenn Valle, Div
of State Police, Bill Jacket, L 1993, ch 574). Had the
Legislature wanted to impose any such limitation, it
could have easily done so (see Bluebird Partners v First
Fid. Bank, 97 N.Y.2d 456, 461 [2002]).
We recognize, as have all of the Appellate Divisions,
that requiring full disclosure of surveillance tapes before
a plaintiff is deposed reintroduces the prospect of
tailored testimony. Defendants complain of this danger,
and indeed one commentator has characterized section
3101 (i) as a "one-sidedly pro-plaintiff statute" that
"seems to be an unabashed promotion of total disclosure
of all surveillance materials * * *" (Siegel, 1993 Supp
Practice Commentaries, McKinney's Cons Laws of NY,
Book 7B, CPLR C3101:50, 2003 Pocket Part, at 36-37).
While we articulated our solution to the tailored-
testimony problem in DiMichel, we are not now free to
impose a timing requirement under section 3101 (i)
given the Legislature's pointed recasting of the relevant
discovery provisions and its mandate for "full
disclosure." We agree with the Second, Third and
Fourth Departments that notwithstanding the danger of
tailored testimony, section 3101 (i) requires full
disclosure with 
[99 N.Y.2d 390]
 no limitation as to
timing, unless and until the Legislature declares
otherwise.
Accordingly, the order of the Appellate Division should
be reversed, with costs, the order of Supreme Court
reinstated, and the certified question answered in the
negative.
Order reversed, etc.