Two points have been made in this cause.
1. That a corporation, composed of citizens of [9 U.S. 85]
one state, may sue a citizen of another state, in the
federal courts.
2. That a right to sue in those courts is conferred on this
bank by the law which incorporates it.
The last point will be first considered.
The judicial power of the United States, as defined in the
constitution, is dependent, 1st. On the nature of the
case; and, 2d. On the character of the parties.
By the judicial act, the jurisdiction of the circuit courts is
extended to cases where the constitutional right to plead
and be impleaded, in the courts of the union, depends
on the character of the parties; but where that right
depends on the nature of the case, the circuit courts
derive no jurisdiction from that act, except in the single
case of a controversy between citizens of the same state,
claiming lands under grants from different states.
Unless, then, jurisdiction over this cause has been given
to the circuit court by some other than the judicial act,
the bank of the United States had not a right to sue in
that court, upon the principle that the case arises under
a law of the United States.
The plaintiffs contend that the incorporating act confers
this jurisdiction.
That act creates the corporation, gives it a capacity to
make contracts and to acquire property, and enables it
"to sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and
be answered, defend and be defended, in courts of
record, or any other place whatsoever."
This power, if not incident to a corporation, is
conferred by every incorporating act, and is not
understood to enlarge the jurisdiction of any particular
court, but to give a capacity to the corporation to [9 U.S.
86] appear, as a corporation, in any court which would,
by law, have cognisance of the cause, if brought by
individuals. If jurisdiction is given by this clause to the
federal courts, it is equally given to all courts having
original jurisdiction, and for all sums however small
they may be.
But the 9th article of the 7th section of the act furnishes
a conclusive argument against the construction for
which the plaintiffs contend. That section subjects the
president and directors, in their individual capacity, to
the suit of any person aggrieved by their putting into
circulation more notes than is permitted by law, and
expressly authorizes the bringing of that action in the
federal or state courts.
This evinces the opinion of congress, that the right to
sue does not imply a right to sue in the courts of the
union, unless it be expressed. This idea is strengthened
also by the law respecting patent rights. That law
expressly recognizes the right of the patentee to sue in
the circuit courts of the United States.
The court, then, is of opinion, that no right is conferred
on the bank, by the act of incorporation, to sue in the
federal courts.
2. The other point is one of much more difficulty.
The jurisdiction of this court being limited, so far as
respects the character of the parties in this particular
case, "to controversies between citizens of different
states," both parties must be citizens, to come within the
description.
That invisible, intangible, and artificial being, that mere
legal entity, a corporation aggregate, is certainly not a
citizen; and, consequently, cannot sue or be sued in the
courts of the United States, unless the rights of the
members, in this respect, can be exercised in their
corporate name. If the corporation [9 U.S. 87] be
considered as a mere faculty, and not as a company of
individuals, who, in transacting their joint concerns,
may use a legal name, they must be excluded from the
courts of the union.
The duties of this court, to exercise jurisdiction where it
is conferred, and not to usurp it where it is not
conferred, are of equal obligation. The constitution,
therefore, and the law, are to be expounded, without a
leaning the one way or the other, according to those
general principles which usually govern in the
construction of fundamental or other laws.
A constitution, from its nature, deals in generals, not in
detail. Its framers cannot perceive minute distinctions
which arise in the progress of the nation, and therefore
confine it to the establishment of broad and general
principles.
The judicial department was introduced into the
American constitution under impressions, and with
views, which are too apparent not to be perceived by all.
However true the fact may be, that the tribunals of the
states will administer justice as impartially as those of
the nation, to parties of every description, it is not less
true that the constitution itself either entertains
apprehensions on this subject, or views with such
indulgence the possible fears and apprehensions of
suitors, that it has established national tribunals for the
decision of controversies between aliens and a citizen,
or between citizens of different states. Aliens, or citizens
of different states, are not less susceptible of these
apprehensions, nor can they be supposed to be less the
objects of constitutional provision, because they are
allowed to sue by a corporate name. That name, indeed,
cannot be an alien or a citizen; but the persons whom it
represents may be the one or the other; and the
controversy is, in fact and in law, between those persons
suing in their corporate character, by their corporate
name, for a corporate right, and the individual against
whom the suit may be instituted. Substantially [9 U.S.
88] and essentially, the parties in such a case, where the
members of the corporation are aliens, or citizens of a
different state from the opposite party, come within the
spirit and terms of the jurisdiction conferred by the
constitution on the national tribunals.
Such has been the universal understanding on the
subject. Repeatedly has this court decided causes
between a corporation and an individual without feeling
a doubt respecting its jurisdiction. Those decisions are
not cited as authority; for they were made without
considering this particular point; but they have much
weight, as they show that this point neither occurred to
the bar or the bench; and that the common
understanding of intelligent men is in favor of the right
of incorporated aliens, or citizens of a different state
from the defendant, to sue in the national courts. It is by
a course of acute, metaphysical and abstruse reasoning,
which has been most ably employed on this occasion,
that this opinion is shaken.
As our ideas of a corporation, its privileges and its
disabilities, are derived entirely from the English books,
we resort to them for aid, in ascertaining its character. It
is defined as a mere creature of the law, invisible,
intangible, and incorporeal. Yet, when we examine the
subject further, we find that corporations have been
included within terms of description appropriated to
real persons.
The statute of Henry VIII. concerning bridges and
highways, enacts, that bridges and highways shall be
made and repaired by the "inhabitants of the city, shire,
or riding," and that the justices shall have power to tax
every "inhabitant of such city," &c. and that the
collectors may "distrain every such inhabitant as shall be
taxed and refuse payment thereof, in his lands, goods
and chattels."
Under this statute those have been construed
inhabitants who hold lands within the city where the [9
U.S. 89] bridge to be repaired lies, although they reside
elsewhere.
Lord Coke says, "every corporation and body politic
residing in any county, riding, city, or town corporate,
or having lands or tenements in any shire, quæ propriis
manibus et sumptibus possident et habent, are said to be
inhabitants there, within the purview of this statute."
The tax is not imposed on the person, whether he be a
member of the corporation or not, who may happen to
reside on the lands; but is imposed on the corporation
itself, and, consequently, this ideal existence is
considered as an inhabitant, when the general spirit and
purpose of the law requires it.
In the case of The King v. Gardner, reported by
Cowper, a corporation was decided, by the court of
king's bench, to come within the description of
"occupiers or inhabitants." In that case the poor rates, to
which the lands of the corporation were declared to be
liable, were not assessed to the actual occupant, for there
was none, but to the corporation. And the principle
established by the case appears to be, that the poor rates,
on vacant ground belonging to a corporation, may be
assessed to the corporation, as being inhabitants or
occupiers of that ground. In this case Lord Mansfield
notices and overrules an inconsiderate dictum of Justice
Yates, that a corporation could not be an inhabitant or
occupier.
These opinions are not precisely in point; but they serve
to show that, for the general purposes and objects of a
law, this invisible, incorporeal creature of the law may
be considered as having corporeal qualities.
It is true that as far as these cases go they serve to show
that the corporation itself, in its incorporeal character,
may be considered as an inhabitant or an occupier; and
the argument from them would be more strong in
favour of considering the corporation [9 U.S. 90] itself as
endowed for this special purpose with the character of a
citizen, than to consider the character of the individuals
who compose it as a subject which the court can inspect,
when they use the name of the corporation, for the
purpose of asserting their corporate rights. Still the cases
show that this technical definition of a corporation does
not uniformly circumscribe its capacities, but that courts
for legitimate purposes will contemplate it more
substantially.
There is a case, however, reported in 12 Mod. which is
thought precisely in point. The corporation of London
brought a suit against Wood, by their corporate name,
in the mayor's court. The suit was brought by the mayor
and commonalty, and was tried before the mayor and
aldermen. The judgment rendered in this cause was
brought before the court of king's bench and reversed,
because the court was deprived of its jurisdiction by the
character of the individuals who were members of the
corporation.
In that case the objection, that a corporation was an
invisible, intangible thing, a mere incorporeal legal
entity, in which the characters of the individuals who
composed it were completely merged, was urged and
was considered. The judges unanimously declared that
they could look beyond the corporate name, and notice
the character of the individual. In the opinions, which
were delivered seriatim, several cases are put which
serve to illustrate the principle, and fortify the decision.
The case of The Mayor and Commonalty v. Wood, is
the stronger, because it is on the point of jurisdiction. It
appears to the court to be a full authority for the case
now under consideration. It seems not possible to
distinguish them from each other.
If, then, the congress of the United States had, in terms,
enacted that incorporated aliens might suc [9 U.S. 91] a
citizen, or that the incorporated citizens of one state
might sue a citizen of another state, in the federal courts,
by its corporate name, this court would not have felt
itself justified in declaring that such a law transcended
the constitution.
The controversy is substantially between aliens, suing
by a corporate name, and a citizen, or between citizens
of one state, suing by a corporate name, and those of
another state. When these are said to be substantially
the parties to the controversy, the court does not mean
to liken it to the case of a trustee. A trustee is a real
person capable of being a citizen or an alien, who has
the whole legal estate in himself. At law, he is the real
proprietor, and he represents himself, and sues in his
own right. But in this case the corporate name
represents persons who are members of the
corporation.
If the constitution would authorize congress to give the
courts of the union jurisdiction in this case, in
consequence of the character of the members of the
corporation, then the judicial act ought to be construed
to give it. For the term citizen ought to be understood as
it is used in the constitution, and as it is used in other
laws. That is, to describe the real persons who come into
court, in this case, under their corporate name.
That corporations composed of citizens are considered
by the legislature as citizens, under certain
circumstances, is to be strongly inferred from the
registering act. It never could be intended that an
American registered vessel, abandoned to an insurance
company composed of citizens, should lose her character
as an American vessel; and yet this would be the
consequence of declaring that the members of the
corporation were, to every intent and purpose, out of
view, and merged in the corporation.
The court feels itself authorized by the case in 12 Mod.
on a question of jurisdiction, to look to [9 U.S. 92] the
character of the individuals who compose the
corporation, and they think that the precedents of this
court, though they were not decisions on argument,
ought not to be absolutely disregarded.
If a corporation may sue in the courts of the union, the
court is of opinion that the averment in this case is
sufficient.
Being authorized to sue in their corporate name, they
could make the averment, and it must apply to the
plaintiffs as individuals, because it could not be true as
applied to the corporation.
Judgment reversed; plea in abatement overruled, and
cause remanded.