Alice Houchens brought suit against American Home
Assurance Company ("American") for breach of
contract involving two insurance policies in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia.
American made a motion for summary judgment, and a
hearing was held on the motion. The district court
granted American's motion for summary judgment,
1
and Houchens appealed. Finding no error in the
granting of summary judgment in favor of American,
we affirm.
I.
Coulter Houchens disappeared in August 1980 and has
not been heard from since. His wife, Alice Houchens, is
trying to collect upon either of two life insurance
policies issued by American, which covered Mr.
Houchens. One policy was an occupational accidental
injury and death insurance policy. The other policy was
a non-occupational accident insurance policy; it
excluded coverage if the injury was caused during
employment. Both policies required that the insured's
death be caused by accident in order to be covered.
Evidence shows that Mr. Houchens was a former
employee of the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA). On November 19, 1978, Mr. Houchens was
released from the FAA and was transferred to the
International Civil Aviation Organization in Montreal,
Canada (ICAO). As an employee of ICAO, Mr.
Houchens was stationed in Dharan, Saudi Arabia.
Sometime around August 14, 1980, Mr. Houchens
received a week of vacation leave. He traveled to
Bangkok, Thailand on or before August 14 via Thai
Airlines. Immigration records show that he arrived in
Bangkok on August 15, 1980. His entry permit was valid
through August 29, 1980.
No one has heard from Mr. Houchens since that time.
The State Department, the FBI, ICAO, Mrs. Houchens,
and the Red Cross have searched for him to no avail. In
1988, Mrs. Houchens brought an action to declare Mr.
Houchens legally dead under Virginia law. On April 29,
1988, an order was issued by the Circuit Court of
Loudoun County, Virginia, declaring that Mr.
Houchens is presumed to have died between August 15
and August 29, 1980.
Houchens sued American for breach of contract because
American refused to pay under either of two accidental
death policies covering Mr. Houchens, which were
issued by American. Both policies provided coverage in
the event of death by accident. American maintained
that there was no evidence of Mr. Houchens' death, nor
was there evidence of accidental death. American moved
for summary judgment, and the district court granted
the motion. This appeal followed.
II.
We now review the district court's grant of American's
motion for summary judgment. 
[927 F.2d 165]
 Rule 56
provides that summary judgment is proper if there is no
genuine issue of material fact. Fed.R.Civ.P. 56(c); Helm
v. Western Maryland Ry., 838 F.2d 729, 734 (4th
Cir.1988). Summary judgments are reviewed de novo on
appeal. Elliott v. Norfolk & Western Ry. Co., 910 F.2d
1224, 1230 (4th Cir.1990). "The appellate court,
therefore, must reverse the grant of summary judgment
if it appears from the record that there is an unresolved
issue of material fact; the inferences to be drawn from
the underlying facts contained in the materials before
the trial court must be viewed in the light most
favorable to the party opposing the motion." Id. Thus,
we must determine if there is a genuine issue of material
fact after drawing any inferences in the light most
favorable to Houchens.
III.
Section 64.1-105 of the Virginia Code
2 
 provides that a
person who has been missing for 7 years is presumed to
be dead. Va.Code Ann. 
§
 64.1-105 (1987). Therefore,
Mr. Houchens is presumed to be dead, and Mrs.
Houchens is entitled to that presumption. However, in
order for Mrs. Houchens to recover under the American
policies, she must prove that Mr. Houchens died as a
result of an accident. The term accident is not defined in
the policies. In such cases, the courts of Virginia have
said that an accident is an "event that takes place
without one's foresight or expectation; an undesigned,
sudden, and unexpected event." Harris v. Bankers Life &
Cas. Co., 222 Va. 45, 46, 278 S.E.2d 809, 810 (1981)
(quoting Ocean Accident & Guaranty Corp. v. Glover,
165 Va. 283, 285, 182 S.E. 221, 222 (1935)).
"Under the general rule ... a beneficiary who makes a
death claim under an accident policy or the double
indemnity clause of a life policy, has the burden of
proving that the insured's death was caused by violent,
external and accidental means within the terms of the
policy." Life & Cas. Ins. Co. of Tennessee v. Daniel, 209
Va. 332, 335, 163 S.E.2d 577, 580 (1968). Therefore, the
burden is on Mrs. Houchens to prove that her husband
died by accidental means.
The district court granted summary judgment to
American in this case under the rationale of Celotex
Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 106 S.Ct. 2548, 91
L.Ed.2d 265 (1986). The Supreme Court set out the
standard for granting summary judgment as follows:
Under Rule 56(c), summary judgment is proper "if the pleadings,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file,
together with the affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law." In our view, the plain language of
Rule 56(c) mandates the entry of summary judgment, after adequate
time for discovery and upon motion, against a party who fails to
make a showing sufficient to establish the existence of an element
essential to that party's case, and on which that party will bear the
burden of proof at trial.
Celotex, 477 U.S. at 322, 106 S.Ct. at 2552. We
elaborated on that standard in Helm v. Western
Maryland Ry. Co.:
The appellate court, therefore, must reverse the grant of summary
judgment if it appears from the record that there is an unresolved
issue of material fact; the inferences to be drawn from the
underlying facts contained in the materials before the trial court
must be viewed in the light most favorable to the party opposing
the motion.
[927 F.2d 166]
 838 F.2d 729, 734 (4th Cir.1988). On this
appeal, then, we must view the evidence in the light
most favorable to Houchens to ascertain whether she
made a sufficient showing that Mr. Houchens died
accidentally.
Mrs. Houchens asserts that the presumption that Mr.
Houchens is dead somehow translates into the
presumption that he died accidentally; therefore, she
made a sufficient showing. She relies upon three cases
from the western part of the country as support for the
fact that she met her burden. The first case is Martin v.
Insurance Co. of America, 1 Wn.App. 218, 460 P.2d 682
(1969). There, the "deceased" had been seen hunting elk
in the American River Ridge. He was last seen alive at 9
a.m. at 3,000 foot level, without the aid of a compass,
asking for directions. Conditions were inclement: snow
on the ground, fog obscuring vision, and steep and
wooded mountainside. The court explained the issue as
follows:
Defendant contends that because of the two-fold nature of the
ultimate fact — both of which are dependent upon circumstantial
evidence — the jury was first asked to infer death from the proven
facts and thereafter to infer the manner of death — and that this
process constitutes "the piling of inferences upon inferences." If this
process constituted plaintiff's logical development of the ultimate
fact, we would be obliged to affirm the judgment.... A jury will not
be permitted to extrapolate conjecturally beyond a legal conclusion
which is itself arrived at circumstantially by inference from a
proven fact. But a given set of facts may radially project two (or
more) separate inferences. In such event, one inferential conclusion
is not pyramided upon another; each is drawn independently from
the same evidence.
Martin, 460 P.2d at 684-85. The Martin court was
persuaded that the surrounding circumstances of the
missing person's disappearance gave rise to two separate
inferences: (1) that he was dead; and (2) that the death
was caused by accident. The plaintiff there was not
piling inferences on inferences. Rather, the evidence
gave rise to two separate inferences.
The other two cases Houchens relies upon have equally
bizarre and telling circumstances surrounding the
disappearances. In Englehart v. General Electric Co., 11
Wn.App. 922, 527 P.2d 685 (1974), the missing person
told some people that he was going fishing. His car was
discovered at the yacht club. His boat was found adrift
with the ignition on, throttle at one-quarter speed in a
forward running position. His children testified that he
was not a good swimmer, and that the boat had recently
had some problems requiring their father to lean over
the back of the boat or to get into the water behind the
boat in order to repair the problems. The court held that
an inference of accidental death could be drawn from
the circumstances surrounding his disappearance:
We are not unmindful of [the rule] that "if there is nothing more
tangible to proceed upon than two or more conjectural theories
under one or more of which a defendant would be liable and under
one or more of which a plaintiff would not be entitled to recover, a
jury will not be permitted to conjecture how the accident occurred."
This rule should be reserved for those cases where the inferences
show equal support for opposing conclusions.
Englehart, 527 P.2d at 689.
In Valley Nat'l Bank of Arizona v. J.C. Penney Ins. Co.,
129 Ariz. 108, 628 P.2d 991 (Ct.App.1981), the missing
person disappeared while camping in California with his
wife and step-daughter. They all three disappeared. The
deceased's skeletal remains were discovered at a
campsite, with bullet casings nearby. The court relied
upon the bizarre circumstances of his death to infer that
the death was accidental.
These three cases are readily distinguishable from the
case at bar. Here, there is only evidence of a
disappearance. Mr. Houchens went to Bangkok and was
never heard from again. There are no bizarre
circumstances surrounding his disappearance. He was
not last seen in a position of peril as in Martin. He
simply vanished. 
[927 F.2d 167]
 The circumstances
surrounding his disappearance do not give us a clue that
he actually died, as did the circumstances in Martin,
Englehart, and Valley National. Viewed in the light
most favorable to Mrs. Houchens, we can only conclude
that Mr. Houchens disappeared, and then presume that
he died under Virginia law. We cannot conclude that he
died accidentally. To do so would be to pile inferences
on inferences.
This is a case where the inferences show equal support
for opposing conclusions. Mr. Houchens might have
died accidentally. However, it is equally likely that he
was murdered, that he died of natural causes, that he
took his own life, or that he just went away somewhere
and lives yet. "[I]t is our function ... to ascertain whether
the evidence, considered in the light most favorable
toward plaintiff affords room for men of reasonable
minds to conclude that there is a greater probability that
the ultimate fact did happen than that it did not
happen." Martin, 460 P.2d at 686. The ultimate fact at
issue here is whether the death occurred by accident.
We cannot conclude that there is a greater probability
that the death was caused by accident than by other
means.
The Virginia Supreme Court gave guidance in this area
in General Accident & Casualty Corp. v. Murray, 120
Va. 115, 90 S.E. 620 (1916). There the court wrote:
[T]he right to recover upon the policy sued on must be established
by a preponderance of the evidence deduced in the case, and not be
based merely upon conjecture, guess or random judgment, that is,
upon mere supposition without a single known fact.
The [burden is upon plaintiff] to bring herself within the
provisions of the contract of insurance by proving an accidental
injury to the assured, and there is no presumption to aid her in this
proof, since the well-established rule of law, according to all the
authorities, is, that when death occurs it is presumed to be the
result of natural dissolution rather than of accidental injury.
Murray, 120 Va. at 126, 90 S.E. 620. In Murray, the
court denied recovery even though the plaintiff had
presented some circumstantial evidence of how the
decedent had died.
Houchens relies upon some suicide cases in order to
bolster her argument. She argues that American had the
burden of proving that Mr. Houchens did not commit
suicide. From that she argues that since American did
not meet this burden, there is a presumption that Mr.
Houchens did not commit suicide. This argument and
the cases cited are inapposite.
In the suicide cases, the only question before the court
was whether the cause of death was suicide or accident.
See, e.g., Life & Cas. Ins. Co. of Tennessee v. Daniel, 209
Va. 332, 163 S.E.2d 577 (1968); Moore v. Union Fidelity
Life Ins. Co., 297 N.C. 375, 255 S.E.2d 160 (1978). As
the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia has noted:
It is the settled doctrine in Virginia, supported by a long line of
decisions, that where circumstantial evidence is relied upon to
establish suicide as a defense to an action on a life insurance policy,
the law presumes that death results from a natural cause and the
burden is upon the insurer to establish suicide by clear and
satisfactory evidence to the exclusion of any reasonable hypothesis
consistent with death from natural or accidental causes.
Daniel, 209 Va. at 335, 163 S.E.2d at 580. In both Daniel
and Moore, there was no question that the person had
died, and circumstantial evidence showed that the
person died of unexplained, external means. The only
question for the court in those cases was whether the
death was an accident or a suicide. Under those facts,
where the insurance company defends on the ground of
suicide, the insurance company bears the burden of
overcoming the presumption in favor of death by
accidental means.
The facts in this case are different from the suicide cases.
Here, there is no evidence whatsoever that Mr.
Houchens died, although there is a statutory
presumption 
[927 F.2d 168]
 that he did. In addition,
there is no circumstantial evidence showing that Mr.
Houchens died of unexplained, external means.
Therefore, the suicide cases offer no support for
Houchens.
IV.
To summarize, Houchens relies on the presumption
given her by 
§
 64-1.105 of the Virginia Code to establish
that Mr. Houchens is dead. She then relies upon the
facts surrounding his disappearance as a basis for a jury
finding that his death was accidental. However, the
meager circumstances would not allow a jury to
reasonably conclude that it is more likely that Mr.
Houchens died from an accident than in some other
manner. Because of the sparse evidence concerning his
disappearance, we cannot say that the district court
erred in granting summary judgment in favor of
American under the Celotex standard. Therefore, the
order of the district court is affirmed.
AFFIRMED.