I am compelled to dissent from the opinion and
judgment of the court, and, deeming the question
involved to be important, I take leave to record my
views upon it.
The judgment of the court below was placed upon the
ground that the provisions of the statute were not
complied with. This is of comparatively little
importance, as it affects the present case only. The
judgment of this court is based upon the theory that the
legislature had no power to pass the law in question;
that the principle of the statute is vicious, and every
proceeding under it void. It, therefore, affects all like
cases, past and future, and in every State.
The precise case is this: A statute of Oregon authorizes
suits to be commenced by the service of a summons. In
the case of a non-resident of the State, it authorizes the
service of the summons to be made by publication for
not less than six weeks, in a newspaper published in the
county where the action is commenced. A copy of the
summons must also be sent by mail, directed to the
defendant at his place of residence, unless it be shown
that the residence is not known and cannot be
ascertained. It authorizes a judgment and execution to
be obtained in such proceeding. Judgment in a suit
commenced by one Mitchell in the Circuit Court of
Multnomah County, where the summons was thus
served, was obtained against Neff, the present plaintiff;
and the land in question, situate in Multnomah County,
was bought by the defendant Pennoyer, at a sale upon
the judgment in such suit. This court now holds, that, by
reason of the absence of a personal service of [95 U.S.
737] the summons on the defendant, the Circuit Court
of Oregon had no jurisdiction, its judgment could not
authorize the sale of land in said county, and, as a
necessary result, a purchaser of land under it obtained
no title; that, as to the former owner, it is a case of
depriving a person of his property without due process
of law.
In my opinion, this decision is at variance with the longestablished
practice under the statutes of the States of
this Union, is unsound in principle, and, I fear, may be
disastrous in its effects. It tends to produce confusion in
titles which have been obtained under similar statutes in
existence for nearly a century; it invites litigation and
strife, and over throws a well-settled rule of property.
The result of the authorities on the subject, and the
sound conclusions to be drawn from the principles
which should govern the decision, as I shall endeavor to
show, are these: —
1. A sovereign State must necessarily have such control
over the real and personal property actually being
within its limits, as that it may subject the same to the
payment of debts justly due to its citizens.
2. This result is not altered by the circumstance that the
owner of the property is non-resident, and so absent
from the State that legal process cannot be served upon
him personally.
3. Personal notice of a proceeding by which title to
property is passed is not indispensable; it is competent
to the State to authorize substituted service by
publication or otherwise, as the commencement of a suit
against non-residents, the judgment in which will
authorize the sale of property in such State.
4. It belongs to the legislative power of the State to
determine what shall be the modes and means proper to
be adopted to give notice to an absent defendant of the
commencement of a suit; and if they are such as are
reasonably likely to communicate to him information of
the proceeding against him, and are in good faith
designed to give him such information, and an
opportunity to defend is provided for him in the event
of his appearance in the suit, it is not competent to the
judiciary to declare that such proceeding is void as not
being by due process of law.
5. Whether the property of such non-resident shall be
seized [95 U.S. 738] upon attachment as the
commencement of a suit which shall be carried into
judgment and execution, upon which it shall then be
sold, or whether it shall be sold upon an execution and
judgment without such preliminary seizure, is a matter
not of constitutional power, but of municipal regulation
only.
To say that a sovereign State has the power to ordain
that the property of non-residents within its territory
may be subjected to the payment of debts due to its
citizens, if the property is levied upon at the
commencement of a suit, but that it has not such power
if the property is levied upon at the end of the suit, is a
refinement and a depreciation of a great general
principle that, in my judgment, cannot be sustained.
A reference to the statutes of the different States, and to
the statutes of the United States, and to the decided
cases, and a consideration of the principles on which
they stand, will more clearly exhibit my view of the
question.
The statutes are of two classes: first, those which
authorize the commencement of actions by publication,
accompanied by an attachment which is levied upon
property more or less, of an absent debtor; second, those
giving the like mode of commencing a suit without an
attachment.
The statute of Oregon relating to publication of
summons, supra, p. 718, under which the question
arises, is nearly a transcript of a series of provisions
contained in the New York statute, adopted thirty years
since. The latter authorizes the commencement of a suit
against a non-resident by the publication of an order for
his appearance, for a time not less than six weeks, in
such newspapers as shall be most likely to give notice to
him, and the deposit of a copy of the summons and
complaint in the post-office, directed to him at his
residence, if it can be ascertained; and provides for the
allowance to defend the action before judgment, and
within seven years after its rendition, upon good cause
shown, and that, if the defence be successful, restitution
shall be ordered. It then declares: "But the title to
property sold under such judgment to a purchaser in
good faith shall not be thereby affected." Code, sects. 34,
35; 5 Edm. Rev. Stat. of N.Y., pp. 37-39.
Provisions similar in their effect, in authorizing the
commencement of suits by attachment against absent
debtors, in [95 U.S. 739] which all of the property of the
absent debtor, real and personal, not merely that seized
upon the attachment, is placed under the control of
trustees, who sell it for the benefit of all the creditors,
and make just distribution thereof, conveying absolute
title to the property sold, have been upon the statutebook
of New York for more than sixty years. 2 id., p. 2
and following; 1 Rev. Laws, 1813, p. 157.
The statute of New York, before the Code, respecting
proceedings in chancery where absent debtors are
parties, had long been in use in that State, and was
adopted in all cases of chancery jurisdiction. Whenever
a defendant resided out of the State, his appearance
might be compelled by publication in the manner
pointed out. A decree might pass against him, and
performance be compelled by sequestration of his real or
personal property, or by causing possession of specific
property to be delivered, where that relief is sought. The
relief was not confined to cases of mortgage foreclosure,
or where there was a specific claim upon the property,
but included cases requiring the payment of money as
well. 2 Edm. Rev. Stat. N.Y., pp. 193-195; 186, m.
I doubt not that many valuable titles are now held by
virtue of the provisions of these statutes.
The statute of California authorizes the service of a
summons on a non-resident defendant by publication,
permitting him to come in and defend upon the merits
within one year after the entry of judgment. Code, sects.
10,412, 10,473. In its general character it is like the
statutes of Oregon and New York, already referred to.
The Code of Iowa, sect. 2618, that of Nevada, sect. 1093,
and that of Wisconsin, are to the same general effect.
The Revised Statutes of Ohio, sects. 70, 75, 2 Swan &
Critchfield, provide for a similar publication, and that
the defendant may come in to defend within five years
after the entry of the judgment, but that the title to
property held by any purchaser in good faith under the
judgment shall not be affected thereby.
The attachment laws of New Jersey, Nixon Dig. (4th
ed.), p. 55, are like those of New York already quoted, by
which title may be transferred to all the property of a
non-resident debtor. And the provisions of the
Pennsylvania statute regulating [95 U.S. 740]
proceedings in equity, Brightly's Purden's Dig., p. 5988,
sects. 51, 52, give the same authority in substance, and
the same result is produced as under the New York
statute.
Without going into a wearisome detail of the statutes of
the various States, it is safe to say that nearly every State
in the Union provides a process by which the lands and
other property of a non-resident debtor may be
subjected to the payment of his debts, through a
judgment or decree against the owner, obtained upon a
substituted service of the summons or writ commencing
the action.
The principle of substituted service is also a rule of
property under the statutes of the United States.
The act of Congress "to amend the law of the District of
Columbia in relation to judicial proceedings therein,"
approved Feb. 23, 1867, 14 Stat. 403, contains the same
general provisions. It enacts (sect. 7) that publication
may be substituted for personal service, when the
defendant cannot be found, in suits for partition,
divorce, by attachment, for the foreclosure of mortgages
and deeds of trust, and for the enforcement of
mechanics' liens and all other liens against real or
personal property, and in all actions at law or in equity
having for their immediate object the enforcement or
establishment of any lawful right, claim, or demand to
or against any real or personal property within the
jurisdiction of the court.
A following section points out the mode of proceeding,
and closes in these words: —
"The decree, besides subjecting the thing upon which
the lien has attached to the satisfaction of the plaintiff's
demand against the defendant, shall adjudge that the
plaintiff recover his demand against the defendant, and
that he may have execution thereof as at law." Sect. 10.
A formal judgment against the debtor is thus authorized,
by means of which any other property of the defendant
within the jurisdiction of the court, in addition to that
which is the subject of the lien, may be sold, and the title
transferred to the purchaser.
All these statutes are now adjudged to be
unconstitutional and void. The titles obtained under
them are not of the value [95 U.S. 741] of the paper on
which they are recorded, except where a preliminary
attachment was issued.
Some of the statutes and several of the authorities I cite
go further than the present case requires. In this case,
property lying in the State where the suit was brought,
owned by the non-resident debtor, was sold upon the
judgment against him; and it is on the title to that
property that the controversy turns.
The question whether, in a suit commenced like the
present one, a judgment can be obtained, which, if sued
upon in another State, will be conclusive against the
debtor, is not before us; nor does the question arise as to
the faith and credit to be given in one State to a
judgment recovered in another. The learning on that
subject is not applicable. The point is simply whether
land lying in the same State may be subjected to process
at the end of a suit thus commenced.
It is here necessary only to maintain the principle laid
down by Judge Cooley in his work on Constitutional
Limitations, p. 404, and cited by Mr. Justice Field in
Galpin v. Page, 3 Sawyer, 93, in these words: —
"The fact that process was not personally served is a
conclusive objection to the judgment as a personal
claim, unless the defendant caused his appearance to be
entered in the attachment proceedings. Where a party
has property in a State, and resides elsewhere, his
property is justly subject to all valid claims that may exist
against him there; but beyond this, due process of law
would require appearance or personal service before the
defendant could be personally bound by any judgment
rendered."
The learned author does not make it a condition that
there should be a preliminary seizure of the property by
attachment; he lays down the rule that all a person's
property in a State may be subjected to all valid claims
there existing against him.
The objection now made, that suits commenced by
substituted service, as by publication, and judgments
obtained without actual notice to the debtor, are in
violation of that constitutional provision that no man
shall be deprived of his property "without due process of
law," has often been presented.
In Matter of the Empire City Bank, 18 N.Y. 199, which
[95 U.S. 742] was a statutory proceeding to establish and
to enforce the responsibility of the stockholders of a
banking corporation, and the proceedings in which
resulted in a personal judgment against the stockholders
for the amount found due, the eminent and learned
Judge Denio, speaking as the organ of the Court of
Appeals, says: —
"The notice of hearing is to be personal, or by service at
the residence of the parties who live in the county, or by
advertisement as to others. It may, therefore, happen
that some of the persons who are made liable will not
have received actual notice, and the question is, whether
personal service of process or actual notice to the party
is essential to constitute due process of law. We have
not been referred to any adjudication holding that no
man's right of property can be affected by judicial
proceedings unless he have personal notice. It may be
admitted that a statute which should authorize any debt
or damages to be adjudged against a person upon a
purely ex parte proceeding, without a pretence of notice
or any provision for defending, would be a violation of
the Constitution, and be void; but where the legislature
has prescribed a kind of notice by which it is reasonably
probable that the party proceeded against will be
apprised of what is going on against him, and an
opportunity is afforded him to defend, I am of the
opinion that the courts have not the power to
pronounce the proceeding illegal. The legislature has
uniformly acted upon that understanding of the
Constitution."
Numerous provisions of the statutes of the State are
commented upon, after which he proceeds: —
"Various prudential regulations are made with respect to
these remedies; but it may possibly happen,
notwithstanding all these precautions, that a citizen who
owes nothing, and has done none of the acts mentioned
in the statute, may be deprived of his estate, without any
actual knowledge of the process by which it has been
taken from him. If we hold, as we must in order to
sustain this legislation, that the Constitution does not
positively require personal notice in order to constitute
a legal proceeding due process of law, it then belongs to
the legislature to determine whether the case calls for
this kind of exceptional legislation, and what manner of
constructive notice shall be sufficient to reasonably
apprise the party proceeded against of the legal steps
which are taken against him."
[95 U.S. 743] In Happy v. Mosher, 48 id. 313, the court
say: —
"An approved definition of due process of law is `law in
its regular administration through courts of justice.' 2
Kent, Com. 13. It need not be a legal proceeding
according to the course of the common law, neither
must there be personal notice to the party whose
property is in question. It is sufficient if a kind of notice
is provided by which it is reasonably probable that the
party proceeded against will be apprised of what is going
on against him, and an opportunity afforded him to
defend."
The same language is used in Westervelt v. Gregg, 12 id.
202, and in Campbell v. Evans, 45 id. 356. Campbell v.
Evans and The Empire City Bank are cases not of
proceedings against property to enforce a lien or claim;
but in each of them a personal judgment in damages was
rendered against the party complaining.
It is undoubtedly true, that, in many cases where the
question respecting due process of law has arisen, the
case in hand was that of a proceeding in rem. It is true,
also, as is asserted, that the process of a State cannot be
supposed to run beyond its own territory. It is equally
true, however, that, in every instance where the
question has been presented, the validity of substituted
service, which is used to subject property within the
State belonging to a non-resident to a judgment
obtained by means thereof, has been sustained. I have
found no case in which it is adjudged that a statute must
require a preliminary seizure of such property as
necessary to the validity of the proceeding against it, or
that there must have been a previous specific lien upon
it; that is, I have found no case where such has been the
judgment of the court upon facts making necessary the
decision of the point. On the contrary, in the case of the
attachment laws of New York and of New Jersey, which
distribute all of the non-resident's property, not merely
that levied on by the attachment, and in several of the
reported cases already referred to, where the judgment
was sustained, neither of these preliminary facts existed.
The case of Galpin v. Page, reported in 18 Wall. 350,
and again in 3 Sawyer, 93, is cited in hostility to the
views I have expressed. There may be general
expressions which will justify [95 U.S. 744] this
suggestion, but the judgment is in harmony with those
principles. In the case as reported in this court, it was
held that the title of the purchaser under a decree against
a non-resident infant was invalid, for two reasons: 1st,
That there was no jurisdiction of the proceeding under
the statute of California, on account of the entire
absence of an affidavit of non-residence, and of diligent
inquiry for the residence of the debtor; 2d, the absence
of any order for publication in Eaton's case, — both of
which are conditions precedent to the jurisdiction of the
court to take any action on the subject. The title was
held void, also, for the reason that the decree under
which it was obtained had been reversed in the State
court, and the title was not taken at the sale, nor held
then by a purchaser in good faith, the purchase being
made by one of the attorneys in the suit, and the title
being transferred to his law partner after the reversal of
the decree. The court held that there was a failure of
jurisdiction in the court under which the plaintiff
claimed title, and that he could not recover. The learned
justice who delivered the opinion in the Circuit Court
and in this court expressly affirms the authority of a
State over persons not only, but property as well, within
its limits, and this by means of a substituted service. The
judgment so obtained, he insists, can properly be used as
a means of reaching property within the State, which is
thus brought under the control of the court and
subjected to its judgment. This is the precise point in
controversy in the present action.
The case of Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, is cited
for the same purpose. There the judgment of the court
below, refusing to give effect to a judgment obtained
upon an order of publication against a non-resident, was
reversed in this court. The suit was commenced, or
immediately accompanied (it is not clear which), by an
attachment which was levied upon the real estate sold,
and for the recovery of which this action was brought.
This court sustained the title founded upon the suit
commenced against the non-resident by attachment. In
the opinion delivered in that case there may be remarks,
by way of argument or illustration, tending to show that
a judgment obtained in a suit not commenced by the
levy of an attachment will not give title to land
purchased under it. They are, [95 U.S. 745] however,
extra-judicial, the decision itself sustaining the judgment
obtained under the State statute by publication.
Webster v. Reid, 11 How. 437, is also cited. There the
action involved the title to certain lands in the State of
Iowa, being lands formerly belonging to the half-breeds
of the Sac and Fox tribes; and title was claimed against
the Indian right under the statutes of June 2, 1838, and
January, 1839. By these statutes, commissioners were
appointed who were authorized to hear claims for
accounts against the Indians, and commence actions for
the same, giving a notice thereof of eight weeks in the
Iowa "Territorial Gazette," and to enter up judgments
which should be a lien on the lands. It was provided that
it should not be necessary to name the defendants in the
suits, but the words "owners of the half-breed lands
lying in Lee County" should be a sufficient designation
of the defendants in such suits; and it provided that the
trials should be by the court, and not by a jury. It will be
observed that the lands were not only within the limits
of the territory of Iowa, but that all the Indians who
were made defendants under the name mentioned were
also residents of Iowa, and, for aught that appears to the
contrary, of the very county of Lee in which the
proceeding was taken. Non-residence was not a fact in
the case. Moreover, they were Indians, and,
presumptively, not citizens of any State; and the
judgments under which the lands were sold were
rendered by the commissioners for their own services
under the act.
The court found abundant reasons, six in number, for
refusing to sustain the title thus obtained. The act was
apparently an attempt dishonestly to obtain the Indian
title, and not intended to give a substitution for a
personal service which would be likely, or was
reasonably designed, to reach the persons to be affected.
The case of Voorhees v. Jackson, 10 Pet. 449, affirmed
the title levied under the attachment laws of Ohio, and
laid down the principle of assuming that all had been
rightly done by a court having general jurisdiction of the
subject-matter.
In Cooper v. Smith, 25 Iowa, 269, it is said, that where
no process is served on the defendant, nor property
attached, nor garnishee charged, nor appearance
entered, a judgment based [95 U.S. 746] on a publication
of the pendency of the suit will be void, and may be
impeached, collaterally or otherwise, and forms no bar
to a recovery in opposition to it, nor any foundation for
a title claimed under it. The language is very general,
and goes much beyond the requirement of the case,
which was an appeal from a personal judgment obtained
by publication against the defendant, and where, as the
court say, the petition was not properly verified. All that
the court decided was that this judgment should be
reversed. This is quite a different question from the one
before us. Titles obtained by purchase at a sale upon an
erroneous judgment are generally good, although the
judgment itself be afterwards reversed. McGoon v.
Scales, 9 Wall. 311.
In Darrance v. Preston, 18 Iowa, 396, the distinction is
pointed out between the validity of a judgment as to the
amount realized from the sale of property within the
jurisdiction of the court and its validity beyond that
amount. Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mas. 35; Bissell v. Briggs, 9
Mass. 462; Ewer v. Coffin, 1 Cush. (Mass.) 23, are cited;
but neither of them in its facts touches the question
before us.
In Drake on Attachment, the rule is laid down in very
general language; but none of the cases cited by him will
control the present case. They are the following: —
Eaton v. Bridger, 33 N.H. 228, was decided upon the
peculiar terms of the New Hampshire statute, which
forbids the entry of a judgment, unless the debtor was
served with process, or actually appeared and answered
in the suit. The court say the judgment was "not only
unauthorized by law, but rendered in violation of its
express provisions."
Johnson v. Dodge was a proceeding in the same action
to obtain a reversal on appeal of the general judgment,
and did not arise upon a contest for property sold under
the judgment. Carleton v. Washington Insurance Co.,
35 id. 162, and Bruce v. Cloutman, 45 id. 37, are to the
same effect and upon the same statute.
Smith v. McCutchen, 38 Mo. 415, was a motion in the
former suit to set aside the execution by a garnishee, and
it was held that the statute was intended to extend to
that class of cases. Abbott v. Shepard, 44 id. 273, is to the
same effect, and is based upon Smith v. McCutchen,
supra.
[95 U.S. 747] So in Eastman v. Wadleigh, 65 Me. 251,
the question arose in debt on the judgment, not upon a
holding of land purchased under the judgment. It was
decided upon the express language of the statute of
Maine, strongly implying the power of the legislature to
make it otherwise, had they so chosen.
It is said that the case where a preliminary seizure has
been made, and jurisdiction thereby conferred, differs
from that where the property is seized at the end of the
action, in this: in the first case, the property is supposed
to be so near to its owner, that, if seizure is made of it,
he will be aware of the fact, and have his opportunity to
defend, and jurisdiction of the person is thus obtained.
This, however, is matter of discretion and of judgment
only. Such seizure is not in itself notice to the defendant,
and it is not certain that he will by that means receive
notice. Adopted as a means of communicating it, and
although a very good means, it is not the only one, nor
necessarily better than a publication of the pendency of
the suit, made with an honest intention to reach the
debtor. Who shall assume to say to the legislature, that if
it authorizes a particular mode of giving notice to a
debtor, its action may be sustained, but, if it adopts any
or all others, its action is unconstitutional and void? The
rule is universal, that modes, means, questions of
expediency or necessity, are exclusively within the
judgment of the legislature, and that the judiciary cannot
review them. This has been so held in relation to a bank
of the United States, to the legal-tender act, and to cases
arising under other provisions of the Constitution.
In Jarvis v. Barrett, 14 Wis. 591, such is the holding.
The court say: —
"The essential fact on which the publication is made to
depend is property of the defendant in the State, and not
whether it has been attached... . There is no magic about
the writ [of attachment] which should make it the
exclusive remedy. The same legislative power which
devised it can devise some other, and declare that it shall
have the same force and effect. The particular means to
be used are always within the control of the legislature,
so that the end be not beyond the scope of legislative
power."
If the legislature shall think that publication and deposit
in the post-office are likely to give the notice, there
seems to be [95 U.S. 748] nothing in the nature of things
to prevent their adoption in lieu of the attachment. The
point of power cannot be thus controlled.
That a State can subject land within its limits belonging
to non-resident owners to debts due to its own citizens
as it can legislate upon all other local matters; that it can
prescribe the mode and process by which it is to be
reached, — seems to me very plain.
I am not willing to declare that a sovereign State cannot
subject the land within its limits to the payment of debts
due to its citizens, or that the power to do so depends
upon the fact whether its statute shall authorize the
property to be levied upon at the commencement of the
suit or at its termination. This is a matter of detail, and I
am of opinion, that if reasonable notice be given, with
an opportunity to defend when appearance is made, the
question of power will be fully satisfied.