I join in the views cogently expounded by the majority. I
write separately to give voice to a concern that I believe
informs much of that opinion but finds little or no
expression therein. I speak of the moral issue.
Plaintiff has asked us to recognize and enforce a right to
sell one's own body tissue for profit. He entreats us to
regard the human vessel — the single most venerated
and protected subject in any civilized society — as equal
with the basest commercial commodity. He urges us to
commingle the sacred with the profane. He asks much.
My learned colleague, Justice Mosk, in an impressive if
ultimately unpersuasive dissent, recognizes the moral
dimension of the matter. "[O]ur society," he writes,
"acknowledges a profound ethical imperative to respect
the human body as the physical and temporal expression
of the unique human persona." (Dis. opn. of Mosk, J.,
post, p. 173.) He concludes, however, that morality
militates in favor of recognizing plaintiff's claim for
conversion of his body tissue. Why? Essentially, he
answers, because of these defendants' moral
shortcomings, duplicity and greed. Let them be
compelled, he argues, 
[51 Cal.3d 149]
 to disgorge a
portion of their ill-gotten gains to the uninformed
individual whose body was invaded and exploited and
without whom such profits would not have been
possible.
I share Justice Mosk's sense of outrage, but I cannot
follow its path. His eloquent paean to the human spirit
illuminates the problem, but not the solution. Does it
uplift or degrade the "unique human persona" to treat
human tissue as a fungible article of commerce? Would
it advance or impede the human condition, spiritually or
scientifically, by delivering the majestic force of the law
behind plaintiff's claim? I do not know the answers to
these troubling questions, nor am I willing — like Justice
Mosk — to treat them simply as issues of "tort" law,
susceptible of judicial resolution.
It is true, that this court has not often been deterred
from deciding difficult legal issues simply because they
require a choice between competing social or economic
policies. (Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988) 47
Cal.3d 654, 719-723 [254 Cal.Rptr. 211, 765 P.2d 373]
(conc. and dis. opn. of Kaufman, J.).) The difference
here, however, lies in the nature of the conflicting
moral, philosophical and even religious values at stake,
and in the profound implications of the position urged.
The ramifications of recognizing and enforcing a
property interest in body tissues are not known, but are
greatly feared — the effect on human dignity of a
marketplace in human body parts, the impact on
research and development of competitive bidding for
such materials, and the exposure of researchers to
potentially limitless and uncharted tort liability. (See
Danforth, Cells, Sales, & Royalties: The Patient's Right
to a Portion of the Profits (1988) 6 Yale L. & Pol'y Rev.
179, 195; Note, Source Compensation for Tissues and
Cells Used in Biotechnical Research: Why a Source
Shouldn't Share in the Profits (1989) 64 Notre Dame L.
Rev. 628, 634.)
Whether, as plaintiff urges, his cells should be treated as
property susceptible to conversion is not, in my view,
ours to decide. The question implicates choices which
not only reflect, but which ultimately define our essence.
A mark of wisdom for us as expositors of the law is the
recognition that we cannot cure every ill, mediate every
dispute, resolve every conundrum. Sometimes, as Justice
Brandeis said, "the most important thing we do, is not
doing."
1
Where then shall a complete resolution be found?
Clearly the Legislature, as the majority opinion suggests,
is the proper deliberative forum. Indeed, a legislative
response creating a licensing scheme, which establishes
a fixed rate of profit sharing between researcher and
subject, has already been 
[51 Cal.3d 150]
 suggested.
(Danforth, supra, 6 Yale L. & Pol'y Rev. at pp. 198-201.)
Such an arrangement would not only avoid the moral
and philosophical objections to a free market operation
in body tissue, but would also address stated concerns by
eliminating the inherently coercive effect of a waiver
system and by compensating donors regardless of
temporal circumstances.
The majority view is not unmindful of the seeming
injustice in a result that denies plaintiff a claim for
conversion of his body tissue, yet permits defendants to
retain the fruits thereof. As we have explained, the
reason for our holding is essentially twofold: First,
plaintiff in this matter is not without a remedy; he
remains free to pursue defendants on a breach-of-
fiduciary-duty theory, as well as, perhaps, other tort
claims not before us. Second, a judicial pronouncement,
while supple, is not without its limitations. Courts
cannot and should not seek to fashion a remedy for
every "heartache and the thousand natural shocks that
flesh is heir to."
2 
 Sometimes, the discretion of
forbearance is the better part of responsive valor. This is
such an occasion.