Contrary to the principal holding of the Court of
Appeal, the majority conclude that the complaint does
not — in fact cannot — state a cause of action for
conversion. I disagree with this conclusion for all the
reasons 
[51 Cal.3d 161]
 stated by the Court of Appeal,
and for additional reasons that I shall explain. For
convenience I shall discuss the six premises of the
majority's conclusion in the order in which they appear.
1.
The majority first take the position that Moore has no
cause of action for conversion under existing law
because he retained no "ownership interest" in his cells
after they were removed from his body. (Maj. opn., ante,
p. 137.) To state a conversion cause of action a plaintiff
must allege his "ownership or right to possession of the
property at the time of the conversion" (Baldwin v.
Marina City Properties, Inc. (1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 393,
410). Here the complaint defines Moore's "Blood and
Bodily Substances" to include inter alia his blood, his
bodily tissues, his cells, and the cell lines derived
therefrom.
1 
 Moore thereafter alleges that "he is the
owner of his Blood and Bodily Substances and of the by-
products produced therefrom...." And he further alleges
that such blood and bodily substances "are his tangible
personal property, and the activities of the defendants as
set forth herein constitute a substantial interference
with plaintiff's possession or right thereto, as well as
defendants' wrongful exercise of dominion over
plaintiff's personal property rights in his Blood and
Bodily Substances."
The majority impliedly hold these allegations
insufficient as a matter of law, finding three "reasons to
doubt" that Moore retained a sufficient ownership
interest in his cells, after their excision, to support a
conversion cause of action. (Maj. opn., ante, p. 137.) In
my view the majority's three reasons, taken singly or
together, are inadequate to the task.
The majority's first reason is that "no reported judicial
decision supports Moore's claim, either directly or by
close analogy." (Maj. opn., ante, p. 137.) Neither,
however, is there any reported decision rejecting such a
claim. The issue is as new as its source — the recent
explosive growth in the commercialization of
biotechnology.
The majority next cite several statutes regulating aspects
of the commerce in or disposition of certain parts of the
human body, and conclude in effect that in the present
case we should also "look for guidance" to the
Legislature rather than to the law of conversion. (Id. at
p. 137.) Surely this argument is out of place in an
opinion of the highest court of this state. As the
majority acknowledge, the law of conversion is a
creature of the common law. "`The inherent capacity of
the common law for growth and change is 
[51 Cal.3d
162]
 its most significant feature. Its development has
been determined by the social needs of the community
which it serves. It is constantly expanding and
developing in keeping with advancing civilization and
the new conditions and progress of society, and adapting
itself to the gradual change of trade, commerce, arts,
inventions, and the needs of the country.' [Citation.] [
¶
]
In short, as the United States Supreme Court has aptly
said, `This flexibility and capacity for growth and
adaptation is the peculiar boast and excellence of the
common law.' [Citation.] ... Although the Legislature
may of course speak to the subject, in the common law
system the primary instruments of this evolution are the
courts, adjudicating on a regular basis the rich variety of
individual cases brought before them." (Rodriguez v.
Bethlehem Steel Corp. (1974) 12 Cal.3d 382, 394 [115
Cal.Rptr. 765, 525 P.2d 669].)
Especially is this true in the field of torts. I need not
review the many instances in which this court has
broken fresh ground by announcing new rules of tort
law: time and again when a new rule was needed we did
not stay our hand merely because the matter was one of
first impression.
2 
 For example, in Sindell v. Abbott
Laboratories (1980) 26 Cal.3d 588 [163 Cal.Rptr. 132,
607 P.2d 924, 2 A.L.R.4th 1061], we adopted a "market
share" theory of liability for injury resulting from
administration of a prescription drug and suffered by a
plaintiff who without fault cannot trace the particular
manufacturer of the drug that caused the harm. Like the
opinion in the case at bar, the dissent in Sindell objected
that market share liability was "a wholly new theory"
and an "unprecedented extension of liability" (Id. at pp.
614-615), and urged that in view of the economic,
social, and medical effects of this new rule the decision
to adopt it should rest with the Legislature (Id. at p.
621). We nevertheless declared the new rule for sound
policy reasons, explaining that "In our contemporary
complex industrialized society, advances in science and
technology create fungible goods which may harm
consumers and which cannot be traced to any specific
producer. The response of the courts can be either to
adhere rigidly to prior doctrine, denying recovery to
those injured by such products, or to fashion remedies
to meet these changing needs." (Id. at p. 610.) We took
the latter course.
3
The case at bar, of course, does not involve a drug-
induced injury. Yet it does present a claim arising, like
Sindell's, from "advances in science and technology" that
could not have been foreseen when traditional tort
doctrine 
[51 Cal.3d 163]
 — here, the law of conversion —
was formulated. My point is that if the cause of action
for conversion is otherwise an appropriate remedy on
these facts, we should not refrain from fashioning it
simply because another court has not yet so held or
because the Legislature has not yet addressed the
question. We need not wait on either event, because
neither is a precondition to an exercise of our long-
standing "power to insure the just and rational
development of the common law in our state"
(Rodriguez v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., supra, 12 Cal.3d
382, 394).
4
2.
The majority's second reason for doubting that Moore
retained an ownership interest in his cells after their
excision is that "California statutory law ... drastically
limits a patient's control over excised cells." (Maj. opn.,
ante, p. 140.) For this proposition the majority rely on
Health and Safety Code section 7054.4 (hereafter section
7054.4), set forth in the margin.
5 
 The majority concede
that the statute was not meant to directly resolve the
question whether a person in Moore's position has a
cause of action for conversion, but reason that it
indirectly resolves the question by limiting the patient's
control over the fate of his excised cells: "By restricting
how excised cells may be used and requiring their
eventual destruction, the statute eliminates so many of
the rights ordinarily attached to property that one
cannot simply assume that what is left amounts to
`property' or `ownership' for purposes of conversion
law." (Maj. opn., ante, pp. 140-141.) As will appear, I do
not believe section 7054.4 supports the just quoted
conclusion of the majority.
First, in my view the statute does not authorize the
principal use that defendants claim the right to make of
Moore's tissue, i.e., its commercial exploitation. In
construing section 7054.4, of course, "we look first to
the words of the statute themselves" (Long Beach Police
Officers Assn. v. City of Long Beach (1988) 46 Cal.3d
736, 741 [250 Cal.Rptr. 869, 759 P.2d 504]
[51 Cal.3d
164]
 ), and give those words their usual and ordinary
meaning (California Teachers Assn. v. San Diego
Community College Dist. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 692, 698
[170 Cal.Rptr. 817, 621 P.2d 856]).
By its terms, section 7054.4 permits only "scientific use"
of excised body parts and tissue before they must be
destroyed. We must therefore determine the usual and
ordinary meaning of that phrase. I would agree that
"scientific use" at least includes routine postoperative
examination of excised tissue conducted by a pathologist
for diagnostic or prognostic reasons (e.g., to verify
preoperative diagnosis or to assist in determining
postoperative treatment). I might further agree that
"scientific use" could be extended to include purely
scientific study of the tissue by a disinterested researcher
for the purpose of advancing medical knowledge —
provided of course that the patient gave timely and
informed consent to that use. It would stretch the
English language beyond recognition, however, to say
that commercial exploitation of the kind and degree
alleged here is also a usual and ordinary meaning of the
phrase "scientific use."
The majority dismiss this difficulty by asserting that I
read the statute to define "scientific use" as "not-for-
profit scientific use," and by finding "no reason to
believe that the Legislature intended to make such a
distinction." (Maj. opn., ante, p. 141, fn. 34.) The
objection misses my point. I do not stress the concept of
profit, but the concept of science: the distinction I draw
is not between nonprofit scientific use and scientific use
that happens to lead to a marketable by-product; it is
between a truly scientific use and the blatant commercial
exploitation of Moore's tissue that the present complaint
alleges. Under those allegations, defendants Dr. David
W. Golde and Shirley G. Quan were not only scientists,
they were also full-fledged entrepreneurs: the complaint
repeatedly declares that they appropriated Moore's
tissue in order "to further defendants' independent
research and commercial activities and promote their
economic, financial and competitive interests." The
complaint also alleges that defendant Regents of the
University of California (hereafter Regents) actively
assisted the individual defendants in applying for patent
rights and in negotiating with bioengineering and
pharmaceutical companies to exploit the commercial
potential of Moore's tissue. Finally, the complaint
alleges in detail the contractual arrangements between
the foregoing defendants and defendants Genetics
Institute, Inc., and Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation,
giving the latter companies exclusive rights to exploit
that commercial potential while providing substantial
financial benefits to the individual defendants in the
form of cash, stock options, consulting fees, and fringe
benefits. To exclude such traditionally commercial
activities from the phrase "scientific use," as I do here,
does not 
[51 Cal.3d 165]
 give it a restrictive definition;
rather, it gives the phrase its usual and ordinary
meaning, as settled law requires.
Secondly, even if section 7054.4 does permit defendants'
commercial exploitation of Moore's tissue under the
guise of "scientific use," it does not follow that — as the
majority conclude — the statute "eliminates so many of
the rights ordinarily attached to property" that what
remains does not amount to "property" or "ownership"
for purposes of the law of conversion. (Maj. opn., ante,
p. 141.)
The concepts of property and ownership in our law are
extremely broad. (See Civ. Code, 
§§
 654, 655.) A leading
decision of this court approved the following definition:
"`The term "property" is sufficiently comprehensive to
include every species of estate, real and personal, and
everything which one person can own and transfer to
another. It extends to every species of right and interest
capable of being enjoyed as such upon which it is
practicable to place a money value.'" (Yuba River Power
Co. v. Nevada Irr. Dist. (1929) 207 Cal. 521, 523 [279 P.
128].)
Being broad, the concept of property is also abstract:
rather than referring directly to a material object such as
a parcel of land or the tractor that cultivates it, the
concept of property is often said to refer to a "bundle of
rights" that may be exercised with respect to that object
— principally the rights to possess the property, to use
the property, to exclude others from the property, and
to dispose of the property by sale or by gift. "Ownership
is not a single concrete entity but a bundle of rights and
privileges as well as of obligations." (Union Oil Co. v.
State Bd. of Equal. (1963) 60 Cal.2d 441, 447 [34
Cal.Rptr. 872, 386 P.2d 496].) But the same bundle of
rights does not attach to all forms of property. For a
variety of policy reasons, the law limits or even forbids
the exercise of certain rights over certain forms of
property. For example, both law and contract may limit
the right of an owner of real property to use his parcel
as he sees fit.
6 
 Owners of various forms of personal
property may likewise be subject to restrictions on the
time, place, and manner of their use.
7 
 Limitations on the
disposition of real 
[51 Cal.3d 166]
 property, while less
common, may also be imposed.
8 
 Finally, some types of
personal property may be sold but not given away,
9
while others may be given away but not sold,
10 
 and still
others may neither be given away nor sold.
11
In each of the foregoing instances, the limitation or
prohibition diminishes the bundle of rights that would
otherwise attach to the property, yet what remains is
still deemed in law to be a protectible property interest.
"Since property or title is a complex bundle of rights,
duties, powers and immunities, the pruning away of
some or a great many of these elements does not entirely
destroy the title...." (People v. Walker (1939) 33
Cal.App.2d 18, 20 [90 P.2d 854] [even the possessor of
contraband has certain property rights in it against
anyone other than the state].) The same rule applies to
Moore's interest in his own body tissue: even if we
assume that section 7054.4 limited the use and
disposition of his excised tissue in the manner claimed
by the majority, Moore nevertheless retained valuable
rights in that tissue. Above all, at the time of its excision
he at least had the right to do with his own tissue
whatever the defendants did with it: i.e., he could have
contracted with researchers and pharmaceutical
companies to develop and exploit the vast commercial
potential of his tissue and its products. Defendants
certainly believe that their right to do the foregoing is
not barred by section 7054.4 and is a significant
property right, as they have demonstrated by their
deliberate concealment from Moore of the true value of
his tissue, their efforts to obtain a patent on the Mo cell
line, their contractual agreements to exploit this
material, their exclusion of Moore from any
participation in the profits, and their vigorous defense
of this lawsuit. The Court of Appeal summed up the
point by observing that "Defendants' position that
plaintiff cannot own his tissue, but that they can, is
fraught with irony." It is also legally untenable. As noted
above, the majority cite no case holding that an
individual's right to develop and exploit the commercial
potential of his own tissue is not a right of sufficient
worth or dignity to be deemed a protectible property
interest. In the absence of such authority — or of
legislation to the same effect — the right falls within the
traditionally broad concept of property in our law.
[51 Cal.3d 167]
 3.
The majority's third and last reason for their conclusion
that Moore has no cause of action for conversion under
existing law is that "the subject matter of the Regents'
patent — the patented cell line and the products derived
from it — cannot be Moore's property." (Maj. opn., ante,
p. 141.) The majority then offer a dual explanation:
"This is because the patented cell line is both factually
and legally distinct from the cells taken from Moore's
body." (Ibid., italics added.) Neither branch of the
explanation withstands analysis.
First, in support of their statement that the Mo cell line
is "factually distinct" from Moore's cells, the majority
assert that "Cells change while being developed into a
cell line and continue to change over time," and in
particular may acquire an abnormal number of
chromosomes. (Maj. opn., ante, p. 141, fn. 35.) No one
disputes these assertions, but they are nonetheless
irrelevant. For present purposes no distinction can be
drawn between Moore's cells and the Mo cell line. It
appears that the principal reason for establishing a cell
line is not to "improve" the quality of the parent cells
but simply to extend their life indefinitely, in order to
permit long-term study and/or exploitation of the
qualities already present in such cells. The complaint
alleges that Moore's cells naturally produced certain
valuable proteins in larger than normal quantities;
indeed, that was why defendants were eager to culture
them in the first place. Defendants do not claim that the
cells of the Mo cell line are in any degree more
productive of such proteins than were Moore's own
cells. Even if the cells of the Mo cell line in fact have an
abnormal number of chromosomes, at the present stage
of this case we do not know if that fact has any bearing
whatever on their capacity to produce proteins; yet it is
in the commercial exploitation of that capacity — not
simply in their number of chromosomes — that Moore
seeks to assert an interest. For all that appears,
therefore, the emphasized fact is a distinction without a
difference.
Second, the majority assert in effect that Moore cannot
have an ownership interest in the Mo cell line because
defendants patented it.
12 
 The majority's point wholly
fails to meet Moore's claim that he is entitled to
compensation for defendants' unauthorized use of his
bodily tissues before defendants 
[51 Cal.3d 168]
 patented
the Mo cell line: defendants undertook such use
immediately after the splenectomy on October 20, 1976,
and continued to extract and use Moore's cells and tissue
at least until September 20, 1983; the patent, however,
did not issue until March 20, 1984, more than seven
years after the unauthorized use began. Whatever the
legal consequences of that event, it did not operate
retroactively to immunize defendants from
accountability for conduct occurring long before the
patent was granted.
Nor did the issuance of the patent in 1984 necessarily
have the drastic effect that the majority contend. To be
sure, the patent granted defendants the exclusive right
to make, use, or sell the invention for a period of 17
years. (35 U.S.C. 
§
 154.) But Moore does not assert any
such right for himself. Rather, he seeks to show that he
is entitled, in fairness and equity, to some share in the
profits that defendants have made and will make from
their commercial exploitation of the Mo cell line. I do
not question that the cell line is primarily the product of
defendants' inventive effort. Yet likewise no one can
question Moore's crucial contribution to the invention
— an invention named, ironically, after him: but for the
cells of Moore's body taken by defendants, there would
have been no Mo cell line. Thus the complaint alleges
that Moore's "Blood and Bodily Substances were
absolutely essential to defendants' research and
commercial activities with regard to his cells, cell lines,
[and] the Mo cell-line, ... and that defendants could not
have applied for and had issued to them the Mo cell-line
patent and other patents described herein without
obtaining and culturing specimens of plaintiff's Blood
and Bodily Substances." Defendants admit this allegation
by their demurrers, as well they should: for all their
expertise, defendants do not claim they could have
extracted the Mo cell line out of thin air.
Nevertheless the majority conclude that the patent
somehow cut off all Moore's rights — past, present, and
future — to share in the proceeds of defendants'
commercial exploitation of the cell line derived from his
own body tissue. The majority cite no authority for this
unfair result, and I cannot believe it is compelled by the
general law of patents: a patent is not a license to
defraud.
13 
 Perhaps the answer lies in an analogy to the
concept of "joint inventor." I am aware that "patients
and research subjects who contribute cells to research
will not be considered inventors." (OTA Rep., supra, at
p. 71.) Nor is such a person, strictly speaking, a "joint
inventor" within the 
[51 Cal.3d 169]
 meaning of the
term in federal law. (35 U.S.C. 
§
 116.) But he does fall
within the spirit of that law: "The joint invention
provision guarantees that all who contribute in a
substantial way to a product's development benefit from
the reward that the product brings. Thus, the protection
of joint inventors encourages scientists to cooperate
with each other and ensures that each contributor is
rewarded fairly.
"Although a patient who donates cells does not fit
squarely within the definition of a joint inventor, the
policy reasons that inform joint inventor patents should
also apply to cell donors. Neither John Moore nor any
other patient whose cells become the basis for a
patentable cell line qualifies as a `joint inventor' because
he or she did not further the development of the
product in any intellectual or conceptual sense. Nor does
the status of patients as sole owners of a component part
make them deserving of joint inventorship status. What
the patients did do, knowingly or unknowingly, is
collaborate with the researchers by donating their body
tissue.... By providing the researchers with unique raw
materials, without which the resulting product could
not exist, the donors become necessary contributors to
the product. Concededly, the patent is not granted for
the cell as it is found in nature, but for the modified
biogenetic product. However, the uniqueness of the
product that gives rise to its patentability stems from the
uniqueness of the original cell. A patient's claim to share
in the profits flowing from a patent would be analogous
to that of an inventor whose collaboration was essential
to the success of a resulting product. The patient was
not a coequal, but was a necessary contributor to the cell
line." (Danforth, Cells, Sales, & Royalties: The Patient's
Right to a Portion of the Profits (1988) 6 Yale L. & Pol'y
Rev. 179, 197, fns. omitted, italics added (hereafter
Danforth).)
Under this reasoning, which I find persuasive, the law of
patents would not be a bar to Moore's assertion of an
ownership interest in his cells and their products
sufficient to warrant his sharing in the proceeds of their
commercial exploitation.
4.
Having concluded — mistakenly, in my view — that
Moore has no cause of action for conversion under
existing law, the majority next consider whether to
"extend" the conversion cause of action to this context.
Again the majority find three reasons not to do so, and
again I respectfully disagree with each.
The majority's first reason is that a balancing of the
"relevant policy considerations" counsels against
recognizing a conversion cause of action in 
[51 Cal.3d
170]
 these circumstances. (Maj. opn., ante, p. 143.) The
memo identifies two such policies, but concedes that
one of them — "protection of a competent patient's right
to make autonomous medical decisions" (id. at p. 143) —
would in fact be promoted, even though "indirectly," by
recognizing a conversion cause of action. (Id. at p. 144.)
The majority focus instead on a second policy
consideration, i.e., their concern "that we not threaten
with disabling civil liability innocent parties who are
engaged in socially useful activities, such as researchers
who have no reason to believe that their use of a
particular cell sample is, or may be, against a donor's
wishes." (Maj. opn., ante, p. 143.) As will appear, in my
view this concern is both overstated and outweighed by
contrary considerations.
14
The majority begin their analysis by stressing the
obvious facts that research on human cells plays an
increasingly important role in the progress of medicine,
and that the manipulation of those cells by the methods
of biotechnology has resulted in numerous beneficial
products and treatments. Yet it does not necessarily
follow that, as the majority claim, application of the law
of conversion to this area "will hinder research by
restricting access to the necessary raw materials," i.e., to
cells, cell cultures, and cell lines. (Maj. opn., ante, p.
144.) The majority observe that many researchers obtain
their tissue samples, routinely and at little or no cost,
from cell-culture repositories. The majority then
speculate that "This exchange of scientific materials,
which is still relatively free and efficient, will surely be
compromised if each cell sample becomes the potential
subject matter of a lawsuit." (Maj. opn., ante, p. 145.)
There are two grounds to doubt that this prophecy will
be fulfilled.
To begin with, if the relevant exchange of scientific
materials was ever "free and efficient," it is much less so
today. Since biological products of genetic engineering
became patentable in 1980 (Diamond v. Chakrabarty
(1980) 447 U.S. 303 [65 L.Ed.2d 144, 100 S.Ct. 2204]
[51
Cal.3d 171]
 ), human cell lines have been amenable to
patent protection and, as the Court of Appeal observed
in its opinion below, "The rush to patent for exclusive
use has been rampant." Among those who have taken
advantage of this development, of course, are the
defendants herein: as we have seen, defendants Golde
and Quan obtained a patent on the Mo cell line in 1984
and assigned it to defendant Regents. With such
patentability has come a drastic reduction in the
formerly free access of researchers to new cell lines and
their products: the "novelty" requirement for
patentability prohibits public disclosure of the invention
at all times up to one year before the filing of the patent
application. (35 U.S.C. 
§
 102(b).) Thus defendants
herein recited in their patent specification, "At no time
has the Mo cell line been available to other than the
investigators involved with its initial discovery and only
the conditioned medium from the cell line has been
made available to a limited number of investigators for
collaborative work with the original discoverers of the
Mo cell line."
An even greater force for restricting the free exchange
of new cell lines and their products has been the rise of
the biotechnology industry and the increasing
involvement of academic researchers in that industry.
15
When scientists became entrepreneurs and negotiated
with biotechnological and pharmaceutical companies to
develop and exploit the commercial potential of their
discoveries — as did defendants in the case at bar —
layers of contractual restrictions were added to the
protections of the patent law.
16
In their turn, the biotechnological and pharmaceutical
companies demanded and received exclusive rights in
the scientists' discoveries, and frequently placed those
discoveries under trade secret protection. Trade secret
protection is popular among biotechnology companies
because, among other reasons, the invention need not
meet the strict standards of 
[51 Cal.3d 172]
 patentability
and the protection is both quickly acquired and
unlimited in duration. (Note, Patent and Trade Secret
Protection in University-Industry Research
Relationships in Biotechnology (1987) 24 Harv. J. on
Legis. 191, 218-219.)
17 
 Secrecy as a normal business
practice is also taking hold in university research
laboratories, often because of industry pressure (id. at
pp. 204-208): "One of the most serious fears associated
with university-industry cooperative research concerns
keeping work private and not disclosing it to the
researcher's peers. [Citation.] ... Economic
arrangements between industry and universities inhibit
open communication between researchers, especially for
those who are financially tied to smaller biotechnology
firms." (Howard, supra, 44 Food Drug Cosm. L.J. at p.
339, fn. 72.)
Secondly, to the extent that cell cultures and cell lines
may still be "freely exchanged," e.g., for purely research
purposes, it does not follow that the researcher who
obtains such material must necessarily remain ignorant
of any limitations on its use: by means of appropriate
recordkeeping, the researcher can be assured that the
source of the material has consented to his proposed use
of it, and hence that such use is not a conversion. To
achieve this end the originator of the tissue sample first
determines the extent of the source's informed consent
to its use — e.g., for research only, or for public but
academic use, or for specific or general commercial
purposes; he then enters this information in the record
of the tissue sample, and the record accompanies the
sample into the hands of any researcher who thereafter
undertakes to work with it. "Record keeping would not
be overly burdensome because researchers generally
keep accurate records of tissue sources for other reasons:
to trace anomalies to the medical history of the patient,
to maintain title for other researchers and for
themselves, and to insure reproducibility of the
experiment." (Toward the Right of Commerciality,
supra, 34 UCLA L.Rev. at p. 241.) As the Court of
Appeal correctly observed, any claim to the contrary "is
dubious in light of the meticulous care and planning
necessary in serious modern medical research."
The majority rely on Brown v. Superior Court, supra,
44 Cal.3d 1049 (hereafter Brown), but the case is plainly
distinguishable. In a unanimous opinion that I authored
for the court, we considered inter alia whether
pharmaceutical manufacturers should be held strictly
liable for injuries caused by "defectively designed"
prescription drugs. We declined to so hold for several
policy reasons. (Id. at pp. 1063-1065.) One of those
reasons was our concern that "the fear of large adverse
monetary judgments" might dissuade such
manufacturers from developing or distributing
potentially beneficial new drugs. (Id. at p. 1063.) The
majority now seek to draw an 
[51 Cal.3d 173]
 analogy
between Brown and the case at bar, but the analogy fails
because liability exposure in the Brown context is
qualitatively far greater. As we acknowledged in Brown,
"unlike other important medical products ... harm to
some users from prescription drugs is unavoidable."
(Ibid., italics added.) On an industry-wide basis,
therefore, the imposition of strict liability for defective
prescription drugs would inevitably result in hundreds,
if not thousands, of meritorious claims by often
seriously harmed plaintiffs, most of them likely to be
seeking exemplary as well as compensatory damages.
18
Given the innocence and vulnerability of the typical
plaintiff in such cases, sympathetic juries might well
return substantial verdicts again and again, and the
industry's total liability could reach intimidating
proportions. Indeed, in Brown we chronicled actual
instances in which the mere threat of such liability did
cause the industry to refuse to supply new prescription
drugs. (Id. at p. 1064.)
None of the foregoing is true in the case at bar. The
majority claim that a conversion cause of action
threatens to "destroy the economic incentive" to
conduct the type of research here in issue (maj. opn.,
ante, p. 146), but it is difficult to take this hyperbole
seriously. First, the majority reason that with every cell
sample a researcher "purchases a ticket in a litigation
lottery." (Id. at p. 146.) This is a colorful image, but it
does not necessarily reflect reality: as explained above,
with proper recordkeeping the researcher acquires not a
litigation-lottery ticket but the information he needs
precisely in order to avoid litigation. In contrast to
Brown, therefore, here the harm is by no means
"unavoidable." Second, the risk at hand is not of a
multiplicity of actions: in Brown the harm would be
suffered by many members of the public — the users of
the end product of the process of developing the new
drug — while here it can be suffered by only one person
— the original source of the research material that began
that process. Third, the harm to the latter will be
primarily economic, rather than the potentially grave
physical injuries at issue in Brown.
In any event, in my view whatever merit the majority's
single policy consideration may have is outweighed by
two contrary considerations, i.e., policies that are
promoted by recognizing that every individual has a
legally protectible property interest in his own body and
its products. First, our society acknowledges a profound
ethical imperative to respect the human body as the
physical and temporal expression of the unique human
persona. One manifestation of that respect is our
prohibition against direct abuse of the body by torture
or other forms of cruel or unusual punishment. Another
is our prohibition against indirect abuse of the body by
its economic exploitation 
[51 Cal.3d 174]
 for the sole
benefit of another person. The most abhorrent form of
such exploitation, of course, was the institution of
slavery. Lesser forms, such as indentured servitude or
even debtor's prison, have also disappeared. Yet their
specter haunts the laboratories and boardrooms of
today's biotechnological research-industrial complex. It
arises wherever scientists or industrialists claim, as
defendants claim here, the right to appropriate and
exploit a patient's tissue for their sole economic benefit
— the right, in other words, to freely mine or harvest
valuable physical properties of the patient's body:
"Research with human cells that results in significant
economic gain for the researcher and no gain for the
patient offends the traditional mores of our society in a
manner impossible to quantify. Such research tends to
treat the human body as a commodity — a means to a
profitable end. The dignity and sanctity with which we
regard the human whole, body as well as mind and soul,
are absent when we allow researchers to further their
own interests without the patient's participation by
using a patient's cells as the basis for a marketable
product." (Danforth, supra, 6 Yale L. & Pol'y Rev. at p.
190, fn. omitted.)
A second policy consideration adds notions of equity to
those of ethics. Our society values fundamental fairness
in dealings between its members, and condemns the
unjust enrichment of any member at the expense of
another. This is particularly true when, as here, the
parties are not in equal bargaining positions. We are
repeatedly told that the commercial products of the
biotechnological revolution "hold the promise of
tremendous profit." (Toward the Right of
Commerciality, supra, 34 UCLA L.Rev. at p. 211.)
19 
 In
the case at bar, for example, the complaint alleges that
the market for the kinds of proteins produced by the Mo
cell line was predicted to exceed $3 billion by 1990.
These profits are currently shared exclusively between
the biotechnology industry and the universities that
support that industry. The profits are shared in a wide
variety of ways, including "direct entrepreneurial ties to
genetic-engineering firms" and "an equity interest in
fledgling biotechnology firms" (Howard, supra, 44 Food
Drug Cosm. L.J. at p. 338). Thus the complaint alleges
that because of his development of the Mo cell line
defendant Golde became a paid consultant of defendant
Genetics Institute and acquired the rights to 75,000
shares of that firm's stock at a cost of 1 cent each; that
Genetics Institute further contracted to pay Golde and
the Regents at least $330,000 over 3 years, including a
pro rata share of Golde's salary and fringe benefits; and
that defendant Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation
subsequently contracted to increase that compensation
by a further $110,000.
[51 Cal.3d 175]
 There is, however, a third party to the
biotechnology enterprise — the patient who is the
source of the blood or tissue from which all these profits
are derived. While he may be a silent partner, his
contribution to the venture is absolutely crucial: as
pointed out above (pt. 3, ante), but for the cells of
Moore's body taken by defendants there would have
been no Mo cell line at all.
20 
 Yet defendants deny that
Moore is entitled to any share whatever in the proceeds
of this cell line. This is both inequitable and immoral. As
Dr. Thomas H. Murray, a respected professor of ethics
and public policy, testified before Congress, "the person
[who furnishes the tissue] should be justly
compensated.... If biotechnologists fail to make
provision for a just sharing of profits with the person
whose gift made it possible, the public's sense of justice
will be offended and no one will be the winner."
(Murray, Who Owns the Body? On the Ethics of Using
Human Tissue for Commercial Purposes (Jan.-Feb.
1986) IRB: A Review of Human Subjects Research, at p.
5.)
21
There will be such equitable sharing if the courts
recognize that the patient has a legally protected
property interest in his own body and its products:
"property rights in one's own tissue would provide a
morally acceptable result by giving effect to notions of
fairness and preventing unjust enrichment.... [
¶
]
Societal notions of equity and fairness demand
recognition of property rights. There are bountiful
benefits, monetary and otherwise, to be derived from
human biologics. To deny the person contributing the
raw material a fair share of these ample benefits is both
unfair and morally wrong." (Toward the Right of
Commerciality, supra, 34 UCLA L.Rev. at p. 229.)
"Recognizing a donor's property rights would prevent
unjust enrichment by giving monetary rewards to the
donor and researcher proportionate to the value of their
respective contributions. Biotechnology depends upon
the contributions of both patients and researchers. If not
for the patient's contribution of cells with unique
attributes, the medical value of the bioengineered cells
would be negligible. But for the physician's contribution
of knowledge and skill in developing the cell product,
the commercial value of the patient's cells would also be
negligible. Failing to compensate the patient unjustly
enriches the researcher because only the researcher's
contribution is recognized." (Id. at p. 230.) In short, as
the 
[51 Cal.3d 176]
 Court of Appeal succinctly put it, "If
this science has become science for profit, then we fail to
see any justification for excluding the patient from
participation in those profits."
5.
The majority's second reason for declining to extend the
conversion cause of action to the present context is that
"the Legislature should make that decision." (Maj. opn.,
ante, p. 147.) I do not doubt that the Legislature is
competent to act on this topic. The fact that the
Legislature may intervene if and when it chooses,
however, does not in the meanwhile relieve the courts
of their duty of enforcing — or if need be, fashioning —
an effective judicial remedy for the wrong here alleged.
As I observed above (pt. 1, ante), if a conversion cause of
action is otherwise an appropriate remedy on these facts
we should not refrain from recognizing it merely
because the Legislature has not yet addressed the
question. To do so would be to abdicate pro tanto our
responsibility over a body of law — torts — that is
particularly a creature of the common law. And such
reluctance to act would be especially unfortunate at the
present time, when the rapid expansion of
biotechnological science and industry makes resolution
of these issues an increasingly pressing need.
The inference I draw from the current statutory
regulation of human biological materials, moreover, is
the opposite of that drawn by the majority. By selective
quotation of the statutes (maj. opn., ante, p. 137, fns. 22
& 23) the majority seem to suggest that human organs
and blood cannot legally be sold on the open market —
thereby implying that if the Legislature were to act here
it would impose a similar ban on monetary
compensation for the use of human tissue in
biotechnological research and development. But if that
is the argument, the premise is unsound: contrary to
popular misconception, it is not true that human organs
and blood cannot legally be sold.
As to organs, the majority rely on the Uniform
Anatomical Gift Act (Health & Saf. Code, 
§
 7150 et seq.;
hereafter the UAGA) for the proposition that a
competent adult may make a post mortem gift of any
part of his body but may not receive "valuable
consideration" for the transfer. But the prohibition of
the UAGA against the sale of a body part is much more
limited than the majority recognize: by its terms (Health
& Saf. Code, 
§
 7155, subd. (a)) the prohibition applies
only to sales for "transplantation" or "therapy."
22 
 Yet a
different section of the UAGA authorizes the transfer
[51 Cal.3d 177]
 and receipt of body parts for such
additional purposes as "medical or dental education,
research, or advancement of medical or dental science."
(Health & Saf. Code, 
§
 7153, subd. (a)(1).) No section of
the UAGA prohibits anyone from selling body parts for
any of those additional purposes; by clear implication,
therefore, such sales are legal.
23 
 Indeed, the fact that the
UAGA prohibits no sales of organs other than sales for
"transplantation" or "therapy" raises a further
implication that it is also legal for anyone to sell human
tissue to a biotechnology company for research and
development purposes.
With respect to the sale of human blood the matter is
much simpler: there is in fact no prohibition against
such sales. The majority rely (maj. opn., ante, p. 137, fn.
23) on Health and Safety Code section 1606, which
provides in relevant part that the procurement and use
of blood for transfusion "shall be construed to be, and is
declared to be ... the rendition of a service ... and shall
not be construed to be, and is declared not to be, a
sale...." There is less here, however, than meets the eye:
the statute does not mean that a person cannot sell his
blood or, by implication, that his blood is not his
property. "While many jurisdictions have classified the
transfer of blood or other human tissue as a service
rather than a sale, this position does not conflict with
the notion that human tissue is property." (Columbia
Note, supra, 90 Colum. L.Rev. at p. 544, fn. 76.) The
reason is plain: "No State or Federal statute prohibits the
sale of blood, plasma, semen, or other replenishing
tissues if taken in nonvital amounts. Nevertheless, State
laws usually characterize these paid transfers as the
provision of services rather than the sale of a
commodity.... [
¶
] The primary legal reason for
characterizing these transactions as involving services
rather than goods is to avoid liability for contaminated
blood products under either general product liability
principles or the [Uniform Commercial Code's] implied
warranty provisions." (OTA Rep., supra, at p. 76, fn.
omitted.) The courts have repeatedly recognized that the
foregoing is the real purpose of this harmless legal
fiction. (See, e.g., Hyland Therapeutics v. Superior
Court (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 509 [220 Cal.Rptr. 590];
Cramer v. Queen of Angels Hosp. (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d
812 [133 Cal.Rptr. 339]; Shepard v. Alexian Brothers
Hosp. (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 606 [109 Cal.Rptr. 132].)
Thus despite the statute relied on by the majority, it is
perfectly legal in this state for a person to sell his blood
for transfusion or for any other 
[51 Cal.3d 178]
 purpose
— indeed, such sales are commonplace, particularly in
the market for plasma. (See OTA Rep., supra, at p. 121.)
It follows that the statutes regulating the transfers of
human organs and blood do not support the majority's
refusal to recognize a conversion cause of action for
commercial exploitation of human blood cells without
consent. On the contrary, because such statutes treat
both organs and blood as property that can legally be
sold in a variety of circumstances, they impliedly
support Moore's contention that his blood cells are
likewise property for which he can and should receive
compensation, and hence are protected by the law of
conversion.
6.
The majority's final reason for refusing to recognize a
conversion cause of action on these facts is that "there is
no pressing need" to do so because the complaint also
states another cause of action that is assertedly adequate
to the task (maj. opn., ante, p. 147); that cause of action
is "the breach of a fiduciary duty to disclose facts
material to the patient's consent or, alternatively, ... the
performance of medical procedures without first having
obtained the patient's informed consent" (id. at p. 129).
24
Although last, this reason is not the majority's least; in
fact, it underlies much of the opinion's discussion of the
conversion cause of action, recurring like a leitmotiv
throughout that discussion.
The majority hold that a physician who intends to treat
a patient in whom he has either a research interest or an
economic interest is under a fiduciary duty to disclose
such interest to the patient before treatment, that his
failure to do so may give rise to a nondisclosure cause of
action, and that the complaint herein states such a cause
of action at least against defendant Golde. I agree with
that holding as far as it goes.
I disagree, however, with the majority's further
conclusion that in the present context a nondisclosure
cause of action is an adequate — in fact, a superior —
substitute for a conversion cause of action. In my view
the nondisclosure cause of action falls short on at least
three grounds.
First, the majority reason that "enforcement of
physicians' disclosure obligations" will ensure patients'
freedom of choice. (Maj. opn., ante, p. 
[51 Cal.3d 179]
147.) The majority do not spell out how those
obligations will be "enforced"; but because they arise
from judicial decision (the majority opinion herein)
rather than from legislative or administrative
enactment, we may infer that the obligations will
primarily be enforced by the traditional judicial remedy
of an action for damages for their breach. Thus the
majority's theory apparently is that the threat of such an
action will have a prophylactic effect: it will give
physician-researchers incentive to disclose any conflicts
of interest before treatment, and will thereby protect
their patients' right to make an informed decision about
what may be done with their body parts.
The remedy is largely illusory. "[A]n action based on the
physician's failure to disclose material information
sounds in negligence. As a practical matter, however, it
may be difficult to recover on this kind of negligence
theory because the patient must prove a causal
connection between his or her injury and the physician's
failure to inform." (Martin & Lagod, Biotechnology and
the Commercial Use of Human Cells: Toward an
Organic View of Life and Technology (1989) 5 Santa
Clara Computer & High Tech L.J. 211, 222, fn. omitted,
italics added.) There are two barriers to recovery. First,
"the patient must show that if he or she had been
informed of all pertinent information, he or she would
have declined to consent to the procedure in question."
(Ibid.) As we explained in the seminal case of Cobbs v.
Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 245 [104 Cal.Rptr. 505, 502
P.2d 1], "There must be a causal relationship between
the physician's failure to inform and the injury to the
plaintiff. Such a causal connection arises only if it is
established that had revelation been made consent to
treatment would not have been given."
25
The second barrier to recovery is still higher, and is
erected on the first: it is not even enough for the
plaintiff to prove that he personally would have refused
consent to the proposed treatment if he had been fully
informed; he must also prove that in the same
circumstances no reasonably prudent person would
have given such consent. The purpose of this "objective"
standard is evident: "Since at the time of trial the
uncommunicated hazard has materialized, it would be
surprising if the patient-plaintiff did not claim that had
he been informed of the dangers he would have declined
treatment. Subjectively he may believe so, with the
20/20 vision of hindsight, but we doubt that justice will
be served by placing the physician in jeopardy of the 
[51
Cal.3d 180]
 patient's bitterness and disillusionment.
Thus an objective test is preferable: i.e., what would a
prudent person in the patient's position have decided if
adequately informed of all significant perils." (Cobbs v.
Grant, supra, 8 Cal.3d 229, 245.)
26
Even in an ordinary Cobbs-type action it may be
difficult for a plaintiff to prove that no reasonably
prudent person would have consented to the proposed
treatment if the doctor had disclosed the particular risk
of physical harm that ultimately caused the injury. (See,
e.g., Morganroth v. Pacific Medical Center, Inc. (1976)
54 Cal.App.3d 521, 534 [126 Cal.Rptr. 681] [affirming
nonsuit in Cobbs-type action on ground, inter alia, of
lack of proof that plaintiff would have refused coronary
arteriogram if he had been told of risk of stroke].) This
is because in many cases the potential benefits of the
treatment to the plaintiff clearly outweigh the
undisclosed risk of harm. But that imbalance will be
even greater in the kind of nondisclosure action that the
majority now contemplate: here we deal not with a risk
of physical injuries such as a stroke, but with the
possibility that the doctor might later use some of the
patient's cast-off tissue for scientific research or the
development of commercial products. Few if any judges
or juries are likely to believe that disclosure of such a
possibility of research or development would dissuade a
reasonably prudent person from consenting to the
treatment. For example, in the case at bar no trier of fact
is likely to believe that if defendants had disclosed their
plans for using Moore's cells, no reasonably prudent
person in Moore's position — i.e., a leukemia patient
suffering from a grossly enlarged spleen — would have
consented to the routine operation that saved or at least
prolonged his life. Here, as in Morganroth (ibid.), a
motion for nonsuit for failure to prove proximate cause
will end the matter. In this context, accordingly, the
threat of suit on a nondisclosure cause of action is
largely a paper tiger.
The second reason why the nondisclosure cause of
action is inadequate for the task that the majority assign
to it is that it fails to solve half the problem before us: it
gives the patient only the right to refuse consent, i.e.,
the right to prohibit the commercialization of his tissue;
it does not give him the right to grant consent to that
commercialization on the condition that he share in its
proceeds. "Even though good reasons exist to support
informed 
[51 Cal.3d 181]
 consent with tissue
commercialization, a disclosure requirement is only the
first step toward full recognition of a patient's right to
participate fully. Informed consent to
commercialization, absent a right to share in the profits
from such commercial development, would only give
patients a veto over their own exploitation. But
recognition that the patient[s] [have] an ownership
interest in their own tissues would give patients an
affirmative right of participation. Then patients would
be able to assume the role of equal partners with their
physicians in commercial biotechnology research."
(Howard, supra, 44 Food Drug Cosm. L.J. at p. 344.)
Reversing the words of the old song, the nondisclosure
cause of action thus accentuates the negative and
eliminates the positive: the patient can say no, but he
cannot say yes and expect to share in the proceeds of his
contribution. Yet as explained above (pt. 4, ante), there
are sound reasons of ethics and equity to recognize the
patient's right to participate in such benefits. The
nondisclosure cause of action does not protect that
right; to that extent, it is therefore not an adequate
substitute for the conversion remedy, which does
protect the right.
Third, the nondisclosure cause of action fails to reach a
major class of potential defendants: all those who are
outside the strict physician-patient relationship with the
plaintiff. Thus the majority concede that here only
defendant Golde, the treating physician, can be directly
liable to Moore on a nondisclosure cause of action: "The
Regents, Quan, Genetics Institute, and Sandoz are not
physicians. In contrast to Golde, none of these
defendants stood in a fiduciary relationship with Moore
or had the duty to obtain Moore's informed consent to
medical procedures." (Maj. opn., ante, p. 133.) As to
these defendants, the majority can offer Moore only a
slim hope of recovery: if they are to be liable on a
nondisclosure cause of action, say the majority, "it can
only be on account of Golde's acts and on the basis of a
recognized theory of secondary liability, such as
respondeat superior." (Maj. opn., ante, p. 133.) Although
the majority decline to decide the question whether the
secondary-liability allegations of the complaint are
sufficient, they strongly imply disapproval of those
allegations.
27 
 And the 
[51 Cal.3d 182]
 majority further
note that the trial court has already ruled insufficient the
allegations of agency as to the corporate defendants.
(Maj. opn., ante, p. 134.)
To the extent that a plaintiff such as Moore is unable to
plead or prove a satisfactory theory of secondary
liability, the nondisclosure cause of action will thus be
inadequate to reach a number of parties to the
commercial exploitation of his tissue. Such parties
include, for example, any physician-researcher who is
not personally treating the patient, any other researcher
who is not a physician, any employer of the foregoing
(or even of the treating physician), and any person or
corporation thereafter participating in the commercial
exploitation of the tissue. Yet some or all of those parties
may well have participated more in, and profited more
from, such exploitation than the particular physician
with whom the plaintiff happened to have a formal
doctor-patient relationship at the time.
In sum, the nondisclosure cause of action (1) is unlikely
to be successful in most cases, (2) fails to protect
patients' rights to share in the proceeds of the
commercial exploitation of their tissue, and (3) may
allow the true exploiters to escape liability. It is thus not
an adequate substitute, in my view, for the conversion
cause of action.
7.
My respect for this court as an institution compels me to
make one last point: I dissociate myself completely from
the amateur biology lecture that the majority impose on
us throughout their opinion. (Maj. opn., ante, fns. 2, 29,
30, 33 and 35, and text at pp. 138-139.) For several
reasons, the inclusion of most of that material in an
opinion of this court is improper.
First, with the exception of defendants' patent none of
the material in question is part of the record on appeal
as defined by the California Rules of Court. Because this
appeal is taken from a judgment of dismissal entered
after the sustaining of general and special demurrers,
there is virtually no record other than the pleadings.
The case has never been tried, and hence there is no
evidence whatever on the obscure medical topics on
which the majority presume to instruct us. Instead, all
the documents that the majority rely on for their
medical explanations appear in an appendix to
defendant 
[51 Cal.3d 183]
 Golde's opening brief on the
merits. Such an appendix, however, is no more a part of
the record than the brief itself, because the record
comprises only the materials before the trial court when
it made its ruling. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rules 4
through 5.2.) Nor could Golde have moved to augment
the record to include any of these documents, because
none was "part of the original superior court file," a
prerequisite to such augmentation. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 12(a).) "As a general rule, documents not before the
trial court cannot be included as a part of the record on
appeal." (Doers v. Golden Gate Bridge etc. Dist. (1979)
23 Cal.3d 180, 184, fn. 1 [151 Cal.Rptr. 837, 588 P.2d
1261].)
Second, most of these documents bear solely or
primarily on the majority's discussion of whether
Moore's "genetic material" was or was not "unique" (see
maj. opn., ante, p. 139), but that entire discussion is
legally irrelevant to the present appeal. As Justice
Broussard correctly observes in his separate opinion,
"the question of uniqueness has no proper bearing on
plaintiff's basic right to maintain a conversion action;
ordinary property, as well as unique property, is, of
course, protected against conversion." (Conc. and dis.
opn. of Broussard, J., ante, p. 157.)
Third, this nonissue is also a noncontention. The
majority claim that "Moore relies ... primarily" on an
analogy to certain right-of-privacy decisions (maj. opn.,
ante, pp. 137-138), but this is not accurate. Under our
rules, as in appellate practice generally, the parties to an
appeal are confined to the contentions raised in their
briefs (see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 29.3). In his brief on
the merits in this court Moore does not even cite, less
still "rely primarily," on the right-of-privacy decisions
discussed by the majority, nor does he draw any analogy
to the rule of those decisions. It is true that in the course
of oral argument before this court, counsel for Moore
briefly paraphrased the analogy argument that the
majority now attribute to him; but a party may not, of
course, raise a new contention for the first time in oral
argument.
Fourth, much of the material that the majority rely on in
this regard is written in highly technical scientific jargon
by and for specialists in the field of contemporary
molecular biology. (See, e.g., articles cited in maj. opn.,
ante, fn. 30, 2d par., & fn. 35, 2d par.) As far as I know,
no member of this court is trained as a molecular
biologist, or even as a physician; without expert
testimony in the record, therefore, the majority are not
competent to explain these arcane points of medical
science any more than a doctor would be competent to
explain esoteric questions of the law of negotiable 
[51
Cal.3d 184]
 instruments or federal income taxation, or
the rule against perpetuities.
28 
 In attempting to expound
this science the majority run two serious risks. First,
because they have no background in molecular biology
the majority may simply misunderstand what they are
reading, much as a layman might misunderstand a
highly technical article in a professional legal journal.
Indeed, I suggest the majority have already fallen into
this very trap, since some of their explanations appear
either mistaken, confused, or incomplete (e.g., maj.
opn., ante, fn. 29).
The second risk is that of omission. The majority have
access to most of the legal literature published in this
country; but even if the majority could understand the
medical literature, as a practical matter they have access
to virtually none of it. This is demonstrated by the fact
that every one of the medical articles now relied on by
the majority came into their possession as reprints
furnished to this court by one of the parties to this
lawsuit — obviously not an unbiased source. Because the
majority are thus not equipped to independently
research the medical points they seek to make, they risk
presenting only one side of the story; it may well be that
other researchers have reached different or even
contrary results, reported in publications that
defendants, acting in self-interest, have not furnished to
the court. I leave it 
[51 Cal.3d 185]
 to professionals in
molecular biology to say whether the majority's
explanations on this topic are both correct and balanced.
Because I fear they may be neither, I cannot subscribe to
any of them.
I would affirm the decision of the Court of Appeal to
direct the trial court to overrule the demurrers to the
cause of action for conversion.
Respondents' petition for a rehearing was denied
August 30, 1990. Mosk, J., and Broussard, J., were of the
opinion that the petition should be granted.