Following a bench trial, defendant Charles J. Likar was
found guilty of criminal trespass to property and
sentenced to one year of supervision. As part of his
supervision, defendant was ordered to avoid contact
with the complainants, complete a mental health
examination and follow all treatment recommendations.
On appeal, defendant contends that the order of
supervision entered against him should be vacated
because he was found guilty of an uncharged offense. In
the alternative, defendant contends that the evidence
was insufficient to support a finding of guilt beyond a
reasonable doubt. We affirm the judgment of the trial
court.
BACKGROUND
The record demonstrates that a complaint was filed
against defendant for the offense of criminal trespass to
real property in violation of section 5/21-3(a) of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 1961 (Code). 720 ILCS 5/21-
3(a) (West 2000). Although section 5/21-3(a) contains
several subsections, the complaint failed to cite to any of
the subsections specifically. However, the description of
the offense set forth in the complaint utilized the
language of 5/21-3(a)(3) (subsection (a)(3)) of the
statute, and alleged that defendant "knowingly remained
upon the land of Sergio Parisi, 1221 Meadowcrest,
LaGrange Park, Cook County, IL., after receiving verbal
notice from the owner Sergio Parisi to depart."
At trial, the evidence in this case established that, on
May 13, 2000, defendant, who resided at 1209
Meadowcrest in La-Grange Park, received a letter from
the Department of Children and Family Services
(DCFS) concerning a complaint he made against his
neighbor, Rose Parisi (Rose), alleging that Rose was
operating an "unlicenced daycare" in her home. At about
12:10 p.m., defendant walked to the Parisi's property
located at 1221 Meadowcrest with the letter in hand in
order to discuss the situation with the Parisis.
Sergio Parisi (Parisi), the complainant in this case, was
outside mowing the lawn when defendant arrived and
stood on the [768 N.E.2d 153] sidewalk in front of the
Parisi residence. Parisi testified that he was wearing ear
protectors and could not hear defendant, but saw that
defendant was signaling that he wanted to have a
conversation. Parisi told defendant, "I have nothing to
say to you. Get away from me" and defendant walked
back towards his house. Parisi asserted that, prior to his
initial May 13, 2000, visit, defendant had been given
written and verbal notice to stay off the Parisi property.
Within five minutes of his departure, defendant
returned to the Parisi residence on his bicycle.
Defendant was standing on the "edge" of the Parisi's
driveway, "[o]n the driveway part just right in front of
the sidewalk," and was holding "papers" and an envelope
in his hands. Defendant stated that he needed to show
the papers to Parisi, but Parisi refused to have a
conversation with defendant. Specifically, Parisi told
defendant, "[g]et away from me. I have nothing to say to
you. If you step foot on my property, I will have you
arrested" and reiterated this statement six times.
Defendant did not leave the property, but instead, threw
the "papers" on the Parisi's property. He then walked
about "ten feet off the front driveway * * * onto [the]
front lawn" in order to retrieve them. Once defendant
walked on the lawn, Parisi told his wife to call 911.
Defendant then returned to the sidewalk, apologized for
entering the property and left.
On cross-examination, defense counsel asked Parisi if
defendant entered his property prior to walking onto
the lawn to retrieve his papers, and Parisi testified that
defendant had not. This testimony was significant
because, on direct examination, Parisi asserted that
defendant stood on his driveway prior to throwing the
papers on the lawn. On redirect examination, however,
Parisi clarified his testimony regarding this issue and
twice stated that defendant was standing on the
driveway during his second attempt to speak with Parisi
prior to entering the lawn area.
Detective Rompa of the LaGrange Park Police
Department testified that he was called to the Parisi
residence on the date in question. When he arrived, he
saw defendant standing in his own driveway, which was
two doors down from the Parisi's house. Detective
Rompa spoke to defendant and learned that defendant
went to the Parisi residence earlier that day on two
occasions because he wanted to show the Parisi's the
DCFS letter. Defendant maintained that he stood on the
public sidewalk in front of the Parisi's property during
both visits until the wind blew the DCFS envelope out
of his hands onto the Parisi's front lawn. Defendant then
walked onto the Parisi's lawn to retrieve the DCFS
envelope. Defendant admitted that, prior to entering the
Parisi property, he had received a verbal warning not to
enter.
Richard Mike testified that he lives at 1217
Meadowcrest. On May 13, 2000, he and Parisi were
standing in their respective backyards having a
conversation over the hedges. Parisi then began yelling
"[g]et off my property." At that point, Mike noticed
defendant, whom he could see "very clearly," standing in
front of the Parisi's property on "a little corner of grass"
which was located "next to the walk that goes to the
front door." Mike stated that Parisi ordered defendant
off his property five or six times. Mike subsequently
heard Parisi tell his wife to call 911, but was not aware
of defendant's whereabouts at that time.
At the close of the State's case-in-chief, defendant made
a motion for a directed finding, arguing that the
evidence presented by the State was insufficient to prove
the elements of the crime beyond a reasonable [768
N.E.2d 154] doubt. Defendant also argued that his
presence on the Parisi's property was lawful under the
emergency exception to the criminal trespass to
property statute. See 725 ILCS 5/21-3(f) (West 2000).
The trial court rejected these arguments and denied
defendant's motion.
Defendant then testified on his own behalf. He
explained that he went to the Parisi residence the first
time on May 13, 2000, in order to tell the Parisi's that
DCFS was investigating Rose's "unlicenced daycare" and
that he was the individual who spurred the
investigation. As he stood on the sidewalk near the
Parisi's front lawn, defendant noticed that Parisi was
mowing the lawn and wearing ear muffs. When he
realized that Parisi would not be able to hear anything
he said, he went back to his own residence.
Defendant testified that he returned to the Parisi
residence approximately 15 minutes later. He saw Parisi
in the rear of his house. Defendant stood on the
sidewalk "three feet to the left of the driveway" and told
Parisi that he would like to speak with him. When Parisi
did not respond, defendant removed the DCFS letter
from the envelope and held it up for Parisi to see. A gust
of wind then caused defendant to drop the envelope,
which no longer held the letter, and the empty envelope
fluttered into the Parisi's front lawn. Defendant asserted
that he made a "reflexive movement" to retrieve the
envelope which brought him into the lawn as well. As
soon as he retrieved the envelope, he returned to the
sidewalk. During this time, Parisi was yelling, "[i]f you
don't leave I am going to call the police and have you
arrested * * * for trespassing." Defendant reported that
he apologized to Parisi for stepping onto the lawn and
explained that it was an accident, but Parisi nevertheless
told his wife to call 911. Defendant denied standing on
Parisi's driveway and denied that he had previously been
told to stay off the property prior to May 13, 2000.
At the close of evidence, the trial court determined that
"the issue is whether Defendant had received notice
from Mr. Parisi not to enter his land or upon his land
prior to him doing so." After considering the facts of the
case and the reasonable inferences to be drawn
therefrom, the court found defendant guilty of criminal
trespass to property because the court believed that
defendant "did go onto the land with notice that he was
not supposed to be there." The trial court rejected
defendant's argument that his entry onto the land was
lawful under the emergency exception to the statute,
stating:
"I don't think there was really any reasonable belief that this * * *
envelope was in imminent danger of damage or destruction, and I
don't believe the envelope is the type of property that the exception
contemplated."
Defendant now appeals the trial court's judgment.
ANALYSIS
Found Guilty of an Uncharged Offense
Defendant was found guilty of the offense of criminal
trespass to real property under a statute which provides
as follows:
"ยง 21-3. Criminal trespass to real property.
(a) Whoever:
(1) knowingly and without lawful authority enters or remains
within or on a building; or
(2) enters upon the land of another, after receiving, prior to such
entry, notice from the owner or occupant that such entry is
forbidden; or
(3) remains upon the land of another, after receiving notice from
the owner [768 N.E.2d 155] or occupant to depart." 720 ILCS 5/21-
3(a) (West 2000).
Subsection (f) of the statute provides an emergency
exception and states:
"[t]his section does not prohibit a person from entering a building
or upon the land of another for emergency purposes. For purposes
of subsection (f), "emergency" means a condition or circumstance in
which * * * property is or is reasonably believed to be in imminent
danger of damage or destruction." 720 ILCS 5/21-3(f) (West 2000).
On appeal, defendant first contends that the finding of
guilt entered against him in this case must be vacated
because he was unconstitutionally convicted of an
uncharged offense. As a result of the defect in the
complaint, defendant asserts that he was improperly
prevented from preparing an adequate defense and was
unprotected from subsequent prosecution arising from
the same conduct. Defendant argues that he was found
guilty of a violation of subsection (a)(2) of the criminal
trespass to real property statute even though the
complaint filed against him describes a violation of
subsection (a)(3) of the statute. Defendant points out
that subsection (a)(2) is not a lesser included offense of
subsection (a)(3), and therefore, the trial court's finding
of guilt was improper.
The State responds that the general citation to section
5/21-3(a) of the Code in the complaint sufficiently
notified defendant that he would be defending against
all charges falling under the ambit of this section, which
included the conduct described in subsections (a)(2) and
(a)(3), and that defendant was properly found guilty
under subsection (a)(2) because his conduct clearly
violated that portion of the statute.
Both the United States and Illinois Constitutions
provide a criminal defendant with the fundamental right
to be informed of the nature and cause of the charges
against him. U.S. Const., amend. VI; Ill. Const. 1970, art.
I, ยง 8. When the sufficiency of a charging instrument is
challenged for the first time on appeal, this court is
called upon to determine whether the charging
instrument apprised the defendant of the precise offense
charged with enough specificity to allow preparation of
his defense and to allow pleading of the judgment as a
bar to future prosecution arising out of the same
conduct. People v. Gilmore, 63 Ill.2d 23, 29, 344 N.E.2d
456, 460 (1976); People v. Pujoue, 61 Ill.2d 335, 339, 335
N.E.2d 437, 440 (1975).
As previously noted, defendant contends that, because
the complaint describes a violation of subsection (a)(3)
and the trial court found him guilty based on a violation
of subsection (a)(2), the trial court's finding of guilt is
erroneous. We disagree.
Defendant's contention is predicated on the assumption
that the conduct described in each subsection of 5/21-
3(a) constitutes a separate and distinct criminal offense.
We disagree with this contention in reliance on the
cases of People v. Rosochacki, 41 Ill.2d 483, 244 N.E.2d
136 (1969), People v. Allen, 56 Ill.2d 536, 309 N.E.2d
544 (1974) and People v. Maxwell, 148 Ill.2d 116, 170
Ill.Dec. 280, 592 N.E.2d 960 (1992), which are squarely
on point. In each of those cases, the defendants were
charged with murder under subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2) of
section 9-1 of the Code (720 ILCS 5/9-1 (West 2000))
which provides:
"(a) A person who kills an individual without lawful justification
commits murder if, in performing the acts which causes death:
(1) He either intends to kill or do great bodily harm to that
individual or another, or knows that such acts will cause death to
that individual or another; or
[768 N.E.2d 156] (2) He knows that such acts create a strong
probability of death or great bodily harm to that individual or
another." 720 ILCS 5/9-1(a)(1), (a)(2) (West 2000).
However, at trial, the jury was instructed to determine
defendant's guilt under these subsections, as well as
subsection (a)(3), which was not charged in the
indictments. Subsection (a)(3) provides that a person
commits murder if:
"(3) He is attempting or committing a forcible felony other than
voluntary manslaughter." 720 ILCS 5/9-1(a)(3) (West 2000).
On appeal, each of the defendants argued that they were
prevented from preparing a defense and were subjected
to double jeopardy violations because subsection (a)(3)
of the statute, which the jury was allowed to consider,
was not pled in the charging instrument. However, our
supreme court rejected the defendants' claims and found
that each of the subsections of the statute could be
considered because they did not represent separate,
uncharged offenses, but rather, described different ways
in which a defendant could commit first degree murder,
the offense charged.
Specifically, in Rosochacki, the court held that the
defendant was not prejudiced by the instructions given
to the jury because the defendant "was charged with
murder and convicted of that crime" and there was no
evidence which suggested that the variance between the
type of murder charged and the types described in the
indictment surprised defendant or made it impossible to
prepare a defense based on the proof offered against
him. Rosochacki, 41 Ill.2d at 492, 244 N.E.2d at 141.
Likewise, in addressing the same allegation of error in
Allen, the court stated that:
"[u]nder section 9-1 there is but one crime of murder, not three
separate and distinct offenses as the defendant's argument assumes.
Each of subparagraphs (1), (2) and (3) under section 9-1(a)
describes the mental state or the conduct of the defendant which
must accompany the acts which cause the death. If the defendant
were charged with murder under subparagraph (a)(1) and
acquitted, he could not again be charged and tried for the murder of
the same individual under subparagraph (a)(2) or (a)(3)." Allen, 56
Ill.2d at 543, 309 N.E.2d at 547.
Most recently, in Maxwell, the court pointed out that:
"Illinois law recognizes only a single offense of murder, which may
be committed in a variety of ways. Just as the method of
committing murder is not integral to the offense and need not be
specified in the charging instrument * * * the precise statutory
theory of the offense of murder is not a matter that must be
specifically alleged." Maxwell, 148 Ill.2d at 137, 170 Ill.Dec. 280, 592
N.E.2d at 970.
We conclude that our supreme court's reasoning in
Rosochacki Allen and Maxwell is readily applicable to
the case at bar. Essentially, in committing a criminal
trespass to property, the fundamental criminal act is the
actual unlawful entry on the property of another, just as,
in committing murder, the fundamental criminal act is
the actual unlawful killing of another without
justification. As our supreme court stated in Maxwell,
the method of committing the offense is not "integral"
to the actual crime, and therefore, does not need to be
specified in the charging instrument. Maxwell, 148 Ill.2d
at 137, 170 Ill.Dec. 280, 592 N.E.2d at 970. The criminal
trespass to real property statute describes one offense
which can be committed several ways through various
mental [768 N.E.2d 157] states and courses of conduct
described in the subsections of the statute. Indeed, like
the subsections in the murder statute, the subsections
here do not define separate offenses, but rather, describe
"the mental state or the conduct of the defendant which
must accompany the [criminal] acts." Allen, 56 Ill.2d at
543, 309 N.E.2d at 547. Thus, in the case at bar,
defendant was not convicted of an uncharged offense,
but rather, was convicted of the charged offense based
on conduct not described in the complaint.
We are mindful that, when reviewing a challenge to the
charging instrument as in the instant case, we must
consider whether the complaint protected the defendant
from double jeopardy concerns upon acquittal and
apprised the defendant of the charged offense. In this
case, the lack of specificity regarding defendant's actual
conduct in the complaint did not place defendant in
danger of double jeopardy. Indeed, as our supreme court
concluded in Allen, when a statute describes one
offense, a defendant convicted of that offense based on
conduct described in a subsection of the statute cannot
be retried based on conduct described in a different
subsection of the same statute if acquitted. Allen, 56
Ill.2d at 543, 309 N.E.2d at 547. Because we concluded
that the subsections of 5/21-3(a) do not constitute
separate offenses, but rather, describe specific mental
states and conduct, the same principle must apply
herein.
Further, as was the case is Rosochacki Allen and
Maxwell, a review of the record in the instant case does
not show that defendant was surprised by or unable to
defend against subsection (a)(2) of the criminal trespass
to property statute. On the contrary, the record shows
that defendant defended against (a)(2) throughout trial
by attempting to establish that Parisi did not warn him
to stay off the land until defendant entered the land to
retrieve his envelope on the date of the incident. This is
evidenced by the following exchange between defense
counsel and Parisi:
"Q. But when you told him you didn't want any contact, you didn't
tell him to stay off your property?
A. Yes I have. I have in the past.
Q. On that particular day when you were mowing your lawn and
you removed your earmuffs, at that time you said `Stay away from
me. I don't want to talk to you,' correct? Yes or no? Please just
answer my question.
A. I told him the previous week.
Q. My question was on that date at that point in time when you
took off your earmuffs, you just told him to stay away from you?
A. Told him to get away from. I have nothing to say to you. Then
he went home and came back."
It is apparent that, through this exchange, defendant was
trying to establish that Parisi merely told defendant he
did not want to speak to him, but did not tell defendant
to stay away from his property before defendant entered
upon it, which would constitute the violation described
under subsection (a)(2) of the statute. If defendant
believed that he was only required to defend against
subsection (a)(3), this point would not have been a
relevant or necessary part of his cross-examination of
the complainant.
Furthermore, the record demonstrates that defendant
became aware that the State intended to establish a
violation of (a)(2) early on in the trial when the State
elicited testimony from Parisi and Detective Rompa
which established that defendant was previously warned
to stay off the Parisi property. Defendant did not object
to this line of questioning at trial and did not raise
claims of unfair surprise or inability [768 N.E.2d 158] to
prepare a defense in his motion for a directed finding.
For these reasons, we find that defendant was not
deprived of his right to prepare a defense.
Insufficient Evidence
In the alternative, defendant contends that the evidence
against him was insufficient to sustain a conviction
under either subsection (a)(2) or (a)(3) of the statute.
Defendant concedes that he trespassed upon the Parisi's
front lawn in order to retrieve an empty envelope which
previously contained the DCFS letter, but asserts that
his entrance onto the property was lawful pursuant to
subsection (f) of the statute which provides that trespass
is not prohibited in the event of an emergency which
presents a danger to persons or property.
When the sufficiency of the evidence in a criminal case
is challenged, this court must consider whether, after
viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the
State, any rational trier of fact could have found the
essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable
doubt. People v. Heard, 187 Ill.2d 36, 85, 240 Ill.Dec.
577, 718 N.E.2d 58, 85 (1999). In a bench trial, it is the
trial judge's responsibility to determine the credibility of
witnesses, to weigh and draw inferences from the
evidence and to resolve evidentiary conflicts. People v.
Mullen, 313 Ill.App.3d 718, 724, 246 Ill.Dec. 520, 730
N.E.2d 545, 551 (2000). A defendant's conviction will
not be overturned on the basis of insufficient evidence
unless the proof is so unsatisfactory or improbable that a
reasonable doubt of the defendant's guilt exists. People
v. Joya, 319 Ill.App.3d 370, 380, 253 Ill.Dec. 158, 744
N.E.2d 891, 901 (2001).
In the case at bar, Parisi's testimony established that
defendant was told, prior to March 13, 2000, that he was
prohibited from entering the Parisi property. Despite
this knowledge, defendant went to the Parisi residence
twice on the date in question. It is undisputed that
defendant remained on the sidewalk without entering
upon the Parisi's property during his first visit.
However, Parisi's version of events established that
defendant entered onto the Parisi property during the
second visit when defendant stood on the driveway.
Although defendant was repeatedly told to leave and
threatened with arrest while standing on the driveway,
defendant nevertheless deliberately threw his empty
envelope onto the front lawn and then ventured further
onto the Parisi's property in order to retrieve the empty
envelope. While we acknowledge that Parisi's testimony
was contradicted by defendant, who claimed that he
never stood on Parisi's driveway and that a gust of wind,
rather than his own volition, thrust the envelope onto
the front lawn, we nevertheless must accept Parisi's
testimony as credible, relying on the presumption that,
in finding defendant guilty, the trier of fact resolved all
evidentiary conflicts in favor of the State. People v.
Beasley, 251 Ill.App.3d 872, 882, 190 Ill.Dec. 919, 622
N.E.2d 1236, 1243 (1993). Thus, even if we were to
agree with defendant's contention that an "emergency"
was created when his empty envelope blew onto the
Parisi's property, defendant would still be guilty of
criminal trespass because he was standing on the Parisi's
driveway with knowledge that he was prohibited from
entering or remaining there prior to the alleged
"emergency." The trial court's finding of guilt can
therefore be predicated on both subsections (a)(2) and
(a)(3) of the statute.
Moreover, assuming arguendo that defendant was not
standing on Parisi's driveway and did not enter Parisi's
property until he walked onto the front lawn to retrieve
his empty envelope, we simply can not see how retrieval
of defendant's empty envelope constitutes an emergency
as contemplated [768 N.E.2d 159] by the statute.
According to subsection (f), an emergency exists when
property is or is reasonably believed to be in "imminent
danger of damage or destruction." 720 ILCS 5/21-3(f)
(West 2000). In order to determine that subsection (f)
applies to the case at bar, we would have to conclude
that defendant's empty envelope constitutes property
within the contemplation of the Act which creates the
emergency defense. We recognize that the statute does
not break down or define the type or nature of the
property covered by subsection (f), nor does it set forth
the minimum required value of such property.
However, we are driven to conclude that a used, empty
envelope clearly traverses the line between "property"
and "waste." To conclude otherwise would denote that a
person could lawfully trespass on the property of
another under the guise of an "emergency" in order to
recover any trivial object, such as a candy wrapper or
piece of tissue, as constituting "property" under the
provisions of the emergency exception.
Finally, even if we were to consider defendant's
envelope as "property," we cannot see how retrieval of
an empty envelope constitutes an emergency under the
statute because there is no evidence in the record which
suggests, because of weather conditions or other
conditions on Parisi's property, that defendant's empty
envelope was in danger of damage or destruction.
Moreover, even if these conditions existed, the fact
remains that defendant had other options, aside from
unlawful trespass, which would have allowed him to
retrieve his envelope.
In this respect, the facts of the case at bar are analogous
to People v. Haynes, 223 Ill.App.3d 126, 165 Ill.Dec. 606,
584 N.E.2d 1040 (1991). There, defendant argued trial
counsel was ineffective for failing to assert a necessity
defense where the evidence demonstrated that the
defendant attempted to criminally trespass on a trailer
home in order to use the telephone because he believed
that he was in danger of physical assault. This court held
that there was no justification for criminal trespass
because defendant had alternative choices to obtain use
of a phone which did not involve a criminal act, such as
using the public phone in the trailer park or asking
neighboring residents for assistance. Haynes, 223
Ill.App.3d at 128-129, 165 Ill.Dec. 606, 584 N.E.2d at
1042. Here, as in Haynes, defendant had the option to
retrieve his envelope by means other than unlawful
trespass. Defendant could have asked another neighbor
to retrieve the envelope, could have waited for the
envelope to flutter out of the Parisi's yard or could have
asked Parisi to either retrieve the envelope or grant
defendant permission to do so. For these reasons, we
conclude, as the trial court concluded, there was no
"reasonable belief that this * * * envelope was in
imminent danger of damage or destruction" and that the
envelope was not "the type of property that the
exception contemplated."
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the judgment of
the trial court.
Affirmed.