Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 2255(h) and 2244(b)(3)(A), Leslie Parker has filed an application
seeking an order authorizing the district court to consider a second or successive motion to vacate,
set aside, or correct his federal sentence, 28 U.S.C. § 2255. Such authorization may be granted
only if this Court certifies that the second or successive motion contains a claim involving:
(1) newly discovered evidence that, if proven and viewed in light of the
evidence as a whole, would be sufficient to establish by clear and convincing
evidence that no reasonable factfinder would have found the movant guilty of the
offense; or
(2) a new rule of constitutional law, made retroactive to cases on collateral
review by the Supreme Court, that was previously unavailable.
28 U.S.C. § 2255(h). “The court of appeals may authorize the filing of a second or successive
application only if it determines that the application makes a prima facie showing that the
application satisfies the requirements of this subsection.” Id. § 2244(b)(3)(C); see also
Jordan v. Sec’y, Dep’t of Corr., 485 F.3d 1351, 1357–58 (11th Cir. 2007) (explaining that this
Court’s determination that an applicant has made a prima facie showing that the statutory criteria
have been met is simply a threshold determination).
In his application, Parker indicates that he wishes to raise one claim in a second or
successive § 2255 motion. He asserts that his claim is based on the rule announced in Johnson v.
United States, 576 U.S. ___, 135 S. Ct. 2551 (2015), and made retroactive by Welch v. United
States, 578 U.S. ___, 136 S. Ct. 1257 (2016). In Johnson, the Supreme Court held that the
residual clause of the “violent felony” definition in the Armed Career Criminal Act (ACCA) is
unconstitutionally vague and that imposing an increased sentence under that provision therefore
violates due process.1 According to Parker, his ACCA sentence is invalid under Johnson because
the sentence arose under the residual clause.
Applying our decision in In re Rogers, No. 16-12626 (11th Cir. June 17, 2016) (per
curiam), Parker has made a prima facie showing based on Johnson. Under Rogers, “[w]hen the
record does not make clear that the sentencing court relied solely on the ACCA’s still-valid
provisions to classify each predicate offense and binding precedent does not otherwise
demonstrate that only valid ACCA clauses are implicated, we apply Descamps [v. United
States].”2 Slip op. at 4. “At that point, if it is unclear from binding precedent that the state
statute at issue is divisible under Descamps, then the applicant has made out a prima facie case that
his application contains a Johnson claim under § 2255(h).” Id.
Here, Parker was sentenced under the ACCA based on two 1982 Florida convictions for
aggravated assault and a 1983 Florida conviction for burglary of a dwelling. Those convictions
were included in Parker’s indictment, and the presentence investigation report (PSI) relied on the
indictment in determining that the ACCA enhancement applied. The sentencing court adopted
the PSI without specifically discussing the convictions, thereby applying the ACCA enhancement
based on the assault and burglary convictions. While Parker has additional prior convictions, our
review at this stage is limited to whether the convictions that the sentencing court actually relied on
implicate Johnson. See id. at 3–4 (holding that we may only deny an application if the ACCA
predicates “identified” by the sentencing court clearly were not affected by Johnson). In other
words, if one of Parker’s Florida convictions implicates Johnson, then he has made a prima facie
showing regardless as to whether he has other convictions that potentially satisfy the ACCA’s
three-qualifying-offenses requirement.
Under Rogers, Parker has shown that his burglary conviction may be a residual-clause
predicate. The sentencing court did not state that it counted the burglary conviction as an ACCA
predicate based on the enumerated or elements clauses. Moreover, there is no binding precedent
that makes clear that the conviction categorically qualifies as an ACCA predicate under one of
those clauses. In United States v. Weeks, we determined that the defendant’s Florida burglary
conviction constituted an ACCA predicate based on the enumerated clause. 711 F.3d 1255,
1262–63 (11th Cir. 2013). However, there, we used the modified categorical approach and thus
did not hold that Florida burglary categorically qualifies as an enumerated-clause predicate. See
id. Absent any binding precedent holding that Parker’s conviction categorically qualifies as an
ACCA predicate under a still-valid clause, we must turn to Descamps. See Rogers, slip op. at 4.
And we do not have any binding precedent holding that the Florida burglary statute is divisible
under Descamps. See United States v. Lockett, 810 F.3d 1262, n.1 (11th Cir. 2016). Although
Weeks applied the modified categorical approach—indicating that it found the Florida burglary
statute divisible—Weeks predated Descamps. Since Weeks was decided before Descamps, it is
not a “binding precedent” that holds that the Florida burglary statute “is divisible under
Descamps.” See Rogers, slip op. at 4. Accordingly, Weeks is inapposite here, and based on his
burglary conviction, Parker “has made out a prima facie case that his application contains a
Johnson claim under § 2255(h).”4 Id.
denying the government that choice.” See In re Jackson, No. 16-13536, slip op. at 8–9 (11th Cir.
June 24, 2016) (per curiam).
Because Parker has made a prima facie showing that he has raised a claim that meets the
statutory criteria set forth in 28 U.S.C. § 2255, his application for leave to file a second or
successive § 2255 motion is hereby GRANTED.