OBB PERSONENVERKEHR AG v. SACHS
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 13–1067. Argued October 5, 2015—Decided December 1, 2015
Respondent Carol Sachs, a California resident, purchased a Eurail pass
over the Internet from a Massachusetts-based travel agent. While
using that pass to board a train in Austria operated by petitioner
OBB Personenverkehr AG (OBB), the Austrian state-owned railway,
Sachs fell to the tracks and suffered traumatic personal injuries. She
sued OBB in Federal District Court. OBB moved to dismiss, claiming
that her suit was barred by the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act,
which shields foreign states and their agencies and instrumentalities
from suit in United States courts, unless a specified exception applies.
Sachs countered that her suit fell within the Act’s commercial
activity exception, which abrogates sovereign immunity for suits
“based upon a commercial activity carried on in the United States by
[a] foreign state,” 28 U. S. C. §1605(a)(2), reasoning that her suit was
“based upon” the Massachusetts-based travel agent’s sale of the
Eurail pass in the United States, and that the travel agent’s sale of
that pass could be attributed to OBB through common law principles
of agency. The District Court held that Sachs’s suit did not fall within
§1605(a)(2) and dismissed the suit, but the en banc Ninth Circuit
reversed. The court first concluded that the Eurail pass sale by the
travel agent could be attributed to OBB through common law principles
of agency, and then determined that Sachs’s suit was “based upon”
that Eurail pass sale because the sale established a single element
necessary to recover under each cause of action brought by
Sachs.
Held: Sachs’s suit falls outside the commercial activity exception and is
therefore barred by sovereign immunity. Pp. 5–11.
(a) Sachs’s suit is not “based upon” the sale of the Eurail pass for
purposes of §1605(a)(2). Therefore, the Court has no need to address 
whether the Act allows the travel agent’s sale of the Eurail pass to be
attributed to OBB through common law principles of agency. Pp. 5–
9.
(1) Although the Act does not elaborate on the phrase “based upon,”
Saudi Arabia v. Nelson, 507 U. S. 349, provides sufficient guidance
to resolve this case. There, the Court held that the “based upon”
inquiry requires a court to determine the “particular conduct on
which the action is ‘based,’ ” id., at 356, and identified that conduct
by looking to “the ‘gravamen of the complaint,’ ” id., at 357. Pp. 5–6.
(2) The Ninth Circuit used a flawed approach when it found that
the “based upon” inquiry would be satisfied if the sale of the Eurail
pass provided “an element” of each of Sachs’s claims. This Court’s
approach in Nelson is flatly incompatible with such a one-element
approach, which necessarily requires a court to identify all the elements
of each claim before finding that the claim falls outside
§1605(a)(2). The Nelson Court did not undertake such an exhaustive
claim-by-claim, element-by-element analysis or engage in the choiceof-law
analysis necessary to such an undertaking. See id., at 356–
358. P. 7.
(3) As opposed to adopting a one-element test, the Nelson Court
zeroed in on the core of the plaintiffs’ suit—the conduct that actually
injured the plaintiffs—to identify the conduct that the suit was
“based upon.” See id., at 358. All of Sachs’s claims turn on the same
tragic episode in Austria, allegedly caused by wrongful conduct and
dangerous conditions in Austria, which led to injuries suffered in
Austria. However Sachs frames her suit, the incident in Innsbruck,
Austria, remains at its foundation. Any other approach would allow
plaintiffs to evade the Act’s restrictions through artful pleading. See
id., at 363. Pp. 7–9.
(b) Sachs now contends that her claims are “based upon” OBB’s entire
railway enterprise. Because that argument was never presented
to any lower court, it is forfeited. See Taylor v. Freeland & Kronz,
503 U. S. 638, 645–646. Pp. 9–10.
737 F. 3d 584, reversed.
ROBERTS, C. J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court. 