Sachs argues that her suit falls within the Act’s commercial activity exception, which provides in part that a foreign state does not enjoy immunity when “the action is based upon a commercial activity carried on in the United States by the foreign state.” §1605(a)(2). The District Court concluded that Sachs’s suit did not fall within §1605(a)(2) and therefore granted OBB’s motion to dismiss. The en banc majority first observed that, “based on the agreement of the parties,” “the only relevant commercial activity within the United States was [Sachs’s] March 2007 purchase of a Eurail pass from the Rail Pass Experts,” a Massachusetts company. The court next asked whether Sachs’s claims were “based upon” the sale of the Eurail pass within the meaning of §1605(a)(2). The “based upon” determination, the court explained, requires that the commercial activity within the United States be “connected with the conduct that gives rise to the plaintiff’s cause of action.” Id., at 590. Rather, in the court’s view, Sachs would satisfy the “based upon” requirement for a particular claim “if an element of [that] claim consists in conduct that occurred in commercial activity carried on in the United States.” Ibid. Having found that “the sale of the Eurail pass in the United States forms an essential element of each of Sachs’s claims,” the court concluded that each claim was “based upon a commercial activity carried on in the United States” by OBB. OBB also argues that even if such attribution were allowed under the Act, Sachs’s suit is not “based upon” the sale of the Eurail pass for purposes of §1605(a)(2). The Ninth Circuit held that Sachs’s claims were “based  upon” the sale of the Eurail pass because the sale of the pass provided “an element” of each of her claims. Under Nelson, however, the mere fact that the sale of the Eurail pass would establish a single element of a claim is insufficient to demonstrate that the claim is “based upon” that sale for purposes of §1605(a)(2). In addition to arguing that her claims are “based upon” the sale of the Eurail pass, she now contends that her suit is “based upon” “OBB’s overall commercial railway enterprise.” Brief for Respondent 24; see also Tr. of Oral Arg. 38. Sachs argued in the courts below only that her claims were “based upon” the sale of the Eurail pass, and the lower courts resolved the case on that understanding. See, e.g., 737 F. 3d, at 591, n. 4 (“The district court concluded, based on the agreement of the parties, that ‘the only relevant commercial activity within the United States was plaintiff’s March 2007 purchase of a Eurail Pass from the Rail Pass Experts.’ We consider only the relevant conduct as defined by the district court.”). Indeed, when we granted certiorari, the relevant question presented for our review was whether Sachs’s claims were “based upon” the “sale of the ticket in the United States.” Pet. for Cert. i; accord, Brief for Respondent i.
It is so ordered. 