Paul Gulley was served on December 21, 2006. 11 The plaintiff now moves to remand, contending that the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction.
The issue before the Court is the evacuee Paul Gulley's domicile at the time the state court petition was filed.
Alternatively, the plaintiff contends that the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction because Paul Gulley was a Louisiana domiciliary at the time the complaint and removal petition were filed. 15 The Court agrees that it lacks subject matter jurisdiction, but first addresses the plaintiff's procedural defect ground for remand. 16 A defect in the procedure for removal, if timely asserted, may be grounds for remand.
Getty Oil Corp. v. Insurance Co. of North America, 841 F.2d 1254, 1261-62 (5th Cir. 1988) (holding that all served defendants are required to join in petition for removal no later than 30 days from the date on which the first defendant was served); Gillis v. Louisiana, 294 F.3d 755, 759 (5th Cir. 2002).
The defendants have the burden of showing that removal was proper; thus, they must show that Gulley was a Texas domiciliary at the time the plaintiff filed her complaint.
She points to Gulley's Louisiana driver's license, which he presented at the time of the accident, and the fact that he did not have permanent employment in Texas until shortly before his deposition. 28 The defendants characterize Gulley as being domiciled in Texas, pointing to his deposition testimony that he has resided in Texas since he evacuated there shortly after the storm, does not presently intend to live in Louisiana, and recently got a job in Texas. 29 The Court notes that the record provides few objective facts concerning Gulley's domicile in October 2006; indeed, the record consists only of Gulley's deposition testimony, which is attached (albeit unauthenticated) to the defendants' opposition to the plaintiff's motion to remand.
They have failed to carry that burden to show that Gulley was a citizen of Texas at the time the complaint was filed; thus, the Court lacks removal jurisdiction based on diversity of citizenship.
32 Accordingly, the plaintiff's motion to remand is GRANTED. The case is hereby remanded to the Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans 