An alleged contract to sterilize a man whose wife may have a child without any hazard to her life is void as against public policy and public morals.
That the plaintiff has suffered no damage but 'has been blessed with the fatherhood of another child.'" 14 We are of the opinion that a contract to sterilize a man is not void as against public policy and public morals.
It is argued, however, that in the Christensen case the operation was for a man whose wife could not have a child without hazard to her life, whereas in the instant case claimant has contracted for sterilization because he cannot afford children. 15 It is only when a given policy is so obviously for or against the public health, safety, morals or welfare that there is a virtual unanimity of opinion in regard to it, that a court may constitute itself the voice of the community in declaring such policy void: Mamlin v. Genoe, 340 Pa. 320.
Damages in a contract action between doctor and patient are restricted in some jurisdictions. 20 In the instant case plaintiff is suing, according to his claim, under a special contract in which defendant agreed to make him "immediately and permanently sterile and guaranteed the results thereof."
The civil rights created by them may be forfeited by the misconduct of either party; but though the forfeiture can be incurred, so far as the parties themselves are concerned, only by a responsible agent, it follows not that those rights must not give way without it to public policy, and the paramount purposes of the marriage — the procreation and protection of legitimate children, the institution of families, and the creation of natural relations among mankind; from which proceed all the civilization, virtue, and happiness to be found in the world. 26 To allow damages in a suit such as this would mean that the physician would have to pay for the fun, joy and affection which plaintiff Shaheen will have in the  rearing and educating of this, defendant's fifth child.
He wants to have the child and wants the doctor to support it.