Q. How long would you say it took between the time that bond came into your slot on to your desk and the time you opened the window and yelled Cowen? A. Not a second more than fifteen.
A. Nothing. Q. The only thing you know is seeing the bond shoot into the window.
The defendants have refused to make good the plaintiffs' loss, contending that they were chargeable only with due diligence, and that, accepting the version of the plaintiffs as given by Goldberg, it appears that they exercised all the care required of them.
The plaintiffs contend that there was an absolute obligation on the part of the defendants to redeliver the bond to the plaintiffs, and that no question of negligence enters into the case.
A person who has been put, through no act or fault of his own, in such a situation as that in which the defendants were put upon the delivery to them of the wrong bond, has come to be known as "involuntary bailee" (1 Halsbury Laws of Eng. 528; Heugh v. L. N.W.R.R. Co., L.R. 5 Ex. 51 (1870); 5 Cyc. 166, n. 27; Story Bailm. 
I think, however, that all that can be found upon it points to the conclusion that the involuntary bailee, as long as his lack of volition continues, is not under the slightest duty to care for or guard the subject of the bailment, and cannot be held, in respect of custody, for what would even be the grossest negligence in the case of a voluntary bailment (1 Halsbury Laws of Eng. 527, 528; Howard v. Ellis, 1 Cab. El. 253; Smith v. Nashua Lowell Railroad Co., 27 N.H. 86); but that in case the involuntary bailee shall exercise any dominion over the thing so bailed, he becomes as responsible as if he were a voluntary bailee.
The defendant had not ordered the barley, and had never had any dealings with either the plaintiff or G. A few days later G. called upon defendant, informed defendant that the shipment to him was made by mistake, and asked defendant to indorse the delivery order to him, G. The defendant complied, and G., concededly an impostor, obtained the barley and absconded.
The defendant there relied largely upon an earlier case in the Exchequer. Heugh v. L. N.W.R.R. Co., L.R. 5 Ex. 51 (1870).
Later in the day the man in charge of the receiving department of the defendants was called upon the telephone by a person who represented himself to be the plaintiff and who stated that the case of wrappers had been delivered to the defendants by mistake and that the goods would be called for.
The opinion then proceeds: "The plaintiff attempts to fasten a liability upon the defendants as gratuitous bailees upon the theory of the defendants' negligence in accepting the goods and delivering them up to a stranger.
If, however, by any process of reasoning, the duty of a gratuitous bailee could be fastened upon the defendants, then I am of the opinion that, inasmuch as they would only be chargeable in that case with gross negligence ( First National Bank v. Ocean National Bank, 60 N.Y. 278), they should not be here held liable.
As I read the opinion there, the holding of the court was predicated upon two considerations, neither of which touches the instant case, namely, that the possession of the defendants there was due to a trick and a fraud and defendants' total lack of knowledge of the true owner.
But, although the court fell into that undoubted error, I am inclined to think it reached the right conclusion, and upon the proper ground, viz., that because the defendant carrier did not have any reason to know who the true owner was, nothing more could have been required of it than to exercise due care to see to it that the satchel should come into the hands of the true owner.
The exchequer judges in the Hiort case were reluctant to hold the defendant there to the rule of absolute liability, but they were, nevertheless, unanimous in doing so; and I think the rule worked more harshly there than it would here.
The defendants could easily have protected themselves by telephoning the plaintiffs that the wrong bond had been delivered, or they could have sent the bond back to the plaintiffs by one of their own messengers.
I am holding as I do for the reason that while at present there is very little law upon the subject, I am of the opinion that such authority as I have been able to find seems to force the conclusion that when the defendants undertook to redeliver the bond they acted as greatly at their peril as if they had been voluntary bailees.
For the reasons stated, I vote to affirm 