The traditional choice of law rule, embodied in the original Restatement of Conflict of Laws (  384), and until recently unquestioningly followed in this court (see, e.g., Poplar v. Bourjois, Inc., 298 N.Y. 62, 66; Kaufman v. American Youth Hostels, 5 N.Y.2d 1016, modfg.
  Significantly, it was dissatisfaction with "the mechanical formulae of the conflicts of law" (Vanston Committee v. Green, 329 U.S. 156, 162) which led to judicial departure from similarly inflexible choice of law rules in the field of contracts, grounded, like the torts rule, on the vested rights doctrine.
In the much discussed case of Kilberg v. Northeast Airlines (9 N.Y.2d 34), this court declined to apply the law of the place of the tort as respects the issue of the quantum of the recovery in a death action arising out of an airplane crash,    where the decedent had been a New York resident and his relationship with the defendant airline had originated in this State.
Justice, fairness and "the best practical result" (Swift & Co. v. Bankers Trust Co., 280 N.Y. 135, 141, supra) may best be achieved by giving controlling effect to the law of the jurisdiction which, because of its relationship or contact with the occurrence or the parties, has the greatest concern with the specific issue raised in the litigation.
The merit of such a rule is that "it gives to the place `having the most interest in the problem' paramount control over the legal issues arising out of a particular factual context" and thereby allows the forum to apply "the policy of the jurisdiction `most   intimately concerned with the outcome of [the] particular litigation.'"
According to the principles there set out, "The local law of the state which has the most significant relationship with the occurrence and with the parties determines their rights and liabilities in tort" (Restatement, Second, Conflict of Laws,   379; also Introductory Note to Topic 1 of Chapter 9, p. 3 [Tentative Draft No. 8, 1963]), and the relative importance of the relationships or contacts of the respective jurisdictions is to be evaluated in the light of "the issues, the character of the tort and the relevant purposes of the tort rules involved" (  379, ).
Although the rightness or wrongness of defendant's conduct may depend upon the law of the particular jurisdiction through which the automobile passes, the rights and liabilities of the parties which stem from their guest- host relationship should remain constant and not vary and shift as the automobile proceeds from place to place.
Although the traditional rule has in the past been applied by this court in giving controlling effect to the guest statute of the foreign jurisdiction in which the accident occurred (see, e.g., Smith v. Clute, 277 N.Y. 407; Kerfoot v. Kelley, 294 N.Y. 288; Naphtali v. Lafazan, 8 N.Y.2d 1097, affg.
Where the issue involves standards of conduct, it is more than likely that it is the law of the place of the tort which will be controlling but the disposition of other issues must turn, as does the issue of the standard of conduct itself, on the law of the jurisdiction which has the strongest interest in the resolution of the particular issue presented.
  The judgment appealed from should be reversed, with costs, and the motion to dismiss the complaint denied 