In addition to a general denial, defendant pleaded two affirmative defenses: (1) that the money on deposit was paid out to Charles O. Cook with the consent of Mrs. Sather and (2) that this fact is res judicata by virtue of the finding of the probate court in the proceeding to settle Cook's account that Mrs. Sather made a gift of the money in question to Charles O. Cook and "owned no sums of money whatsoever" at the time of her death.
This last contention was answered before judgment was entered, by the decision of this court in Waterland v. Superior Court, 15 Cal.2d 34 , holding that the probate court has jurisdiction in such a situation.
Plaintiff contends that the doctrine of res judicata does not apply because the defendant who is asserting the plea was not a party to the previous action nor in privity with a party to that action and because there is no mutuality of estoppel.
 The doctrine of res judicata precludes parties or their privies from relitigating a cause of action that has been finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(See cases cited in 38 Yale L. J.
See cases cited in 2 Black, Judgments (2d ed.
(See cases cited in 2 Black, Judgments (2d ed.
(See cases cited in 2 Black, Judgments (2d ed.
The requirements of due process of law forbid the assertion of a plea of res judicata against a party unless he was bound by the earlier litigation in which the matter was decided.
(Ibid) There is no compelling reason, however, for requiring that the party asserting the plea of res judicata must have been a party, or in privity with a party, to the earlier litigation.
Many courts have abandoned the requirement of mutuality and confined the requirement of privity to the party against whom the plea of res judicata is asserted.
(Coca Cola Co. v. Pepsi Cola Co., supra; Liberty Mutual Insur.
The courts of most jurisdictions have in effect accomplished the same result by recognizing a broad exception to the requirements of mutuality and privity, namely, that they are not necessary where the liability of the defendant asserting the plea of res judicata is dependent upon or derived from the liability of one who was exonerated in an earlier suit brought by the same plaintiff upon the same facts.
(See cases cited in 35 Yale L. J.
In each of these situations the party asserting the plea of res judicata was not a party to the previous action nor in privity with such a party under the accepted definition of a privy set forth above.
 In determining the validity of a plea of res judicata three questions are pertinent: Was the issue decided in the prior adjudication identical with the one presented in the action in question?
 In the present case, therefore, the defendant is not precluded by lack of privity or of mutuality of estoppel from asserting the plea of res judicata against the plaintiff.
See Chicago, R. & I. R. R. Co. v. Schendel, 270 U.S. 611 [46 S. Ct. 420, 70 L.Ed.
1263]; Lee Co. v. Federal Trade Com., 113 Fed.2d 583; and cases cited in 16 N.Y. U. L. Q. R. 158, 159; 38 Yale L. J.
The judgment is affirmed 