The $3,000, money collected on the life insurance policy, and the $200.94, the price for which the household property sold, plaintiff claims belonged to her by reason of a donatio causa mortis from said Van Pelt. The $45, the price for which her bedroom property sold, and the $300 insurance money on the piano, belonged to her also by reason of gifts inter vivos.
They distinguish this from a symbolical delivery, and say that this is in substance a delivery of the thing, as it is the means of using and enjoying the thing given; while others hold that there must be an actual manual delivery to perfect a gift causa mortis.
It is held that the law of delivery in this State is the same in gifts inter vivos and causa mortis.
And there are expressions used by Judge Gaston in the argument that would justify us in holding that, in all cases of gifts, whether inter vivos or causa mortis, there must be an absolute manual delivery to constitute, or probably more correctly speaking, to complete, a gift, as it takes, first, the intention to give, and then the delivery — as it is (532) the inflexible rule that there can be no gift of either kind without both the intention to give and the delivery.
The leading case in this State is Adams v. Hayes and this cites and approves Ward v. Turner, supra, as the leading case on the subject of gifts causa mortis, and the correct exposition of the law on that subject.
Following this case, founded on Ward v. Turner, we feel bound to give effect to constructive delivery, where it plainly appears that it was the intention of the donor to make the gift, and where the things intended to be given are not present, or, where present, are incapable of manual delivery from their size or weight.
And yet, if symbolical deliveries of gifts causa mortis are to be allowed, or if constructive deliveries be allowed to the extent claimed by the plaintiff, the statute of wills may prove to be of little value.
It being claimed and admitted that the life insurance policy was present in the bureau drawer in the room where it is claimed the (534) gift was made, and being capable of actual manual delivery, we are of the opinion that the title of the insurance policy did not pass to the plaintiff, but remained the property of the intestate of the defendant.
We do not think the articles in the plaintiff's bed chamber passed by the donatio causa mortis, for the same reason that the other articles of household furniture did not pass — want of delivery — either constructive or manual.
The view of the case we have taken has relieved us from a discussion of the exceptions to evidence, and as to the charge of the Court. There is no such thing in this State as symbolical (536) delivery in gifts either inter vivos or causa mortis.
There is error 