 Because marine insurance companies had had long experience with water transportation, it was logical for them to extend their operations to the risks attendant upon inland travel.
 The floater policies were a further extension in the same ambit.
 The effect is less "strenuous", one might say, than the rule applicable in the case of marine risks.
The floater policy is by concession an inland marine risk.
 It is rather difficult to determine which of the two considerations influences the classification of insurance contracts.
In the leading English case of Carter v. Boehm, Lord Mansfield declared that even an innocent concealment of a material fact made the contract voidable saying: "The question, therefore, must always be, `whether there was, under all the circumstances at the time the policy was underwritten, a fair representation, or a concealment, fraudulent if designed, or, though not designed, varying materially the object of the policy, and changing the risk understood to be run.'"
The non-disclosed material fact in the case of Horne v. Poland was alienage of the insured in a burglary policy.
* * * The applicant is likely to trust the judgment of the solicitor as to the materiality of everything not made the subject of express inquiry, and, with the solicitor's strong motive for securing the business, there is danger that facts communicated to him may not find their way into the application."
In a case in the Appellate Division, decided in 1898, a fire insurance risk was avoided for failure to disclose the condition of a vessel.
* * * But, even had there been other inquiries and answers, we do not think that there would exist in this case any reason for applying a different rule of obligation to the assured than would have been the case if they had applied for marine instead of fire insurance.
In accepting an application for insurance under these circumstances, the underwriters had a right to assume that the owners or their agent would act in perfect good faith, and disclose any and all facts material to the risk of which they had any knowledge; and it seems to us that they were under precisely the same obligation to do so as they would have been had they been seeking to obtain an insurance of their vessel against the perils of water."
 The Judge writing the opinion said: "The appellant contends that a fine arts policy is analogous to a marine policy, in that the difficulties of verifying the truth of statements or representations made by the applicant are the same, and, further, that the contract is required to be promptly executed and without time necessary for investigation.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed 