The Court nevertheless holds that Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23, which prescribes procedures for the conduct of class actions in federal courts, preempts the application of § 901(b) in diversity suits.
I A "Under the Erie doctrine," it is long settled, "federal courts sitting in diversity apply state substantive law and federal procedural law."
The first, the Rules of Decision Act, prohibits federal courts from generating [130 S.Ct.
See Gasperini, 518 U.S. at 428, 116 S.Ct.
2239, 101 L.Ed.2d 22 (1988) (SCALIA, J., dissenting) ("[I]n deciding whether a federal ... Rule of Procedure encompasses a particular issue, a broad reading that would create significant disuniformity between state and federal courts should be avoided if the text permits.").
In Walker, the Court took up the question whether Ragan should be overruled; we held, once again, that Federal Rule 3 does not directly conflict with state rules governing the time when an action commences for purposes of tolling a limitations period.
To hold that Rule 41(b) precluded the Maryland courts from entertaining the case, we said, "would arguably violate the jurisdictional limitation of the Rules Enabling Act," 531 U.S. at 503, 121 S.Ct.
In sum, both before and after Hanna, the abovedescribed decisions show, federal courts have been cautioned by this Court to "interpre[t] the Federal Rules... with sensitivity to important state interests," Gasperini, 518 U.S. at 427, n. 7, 116 S.Ct.
Yet today, the Court gives no quarter to New York's limitation on statutory damages and requires the lower courts to thwart the regulatory policy at stake: To prevent excessive damages, New York's law controls the penalty to which a defendant may be exposed in a single suit.
New York's decision instead to block class-action proceedings for statutory damages therefore makes scant sense, except as a means to a manifestly substantive end: Limiting a defendant's liability in a single lawsuit in order to prevent the exorbitant inflation of penalties—remedies the New York Legislature created with individual suits in mind. D Shady Grove contends—and the Court today agrees—that Rule 23 unavoidably preempts New York's prohibition on the recovery of statutory damages in class actions.
The Federal Rule, the Court emphasizes, states that Shady Grove's suit "may be" maintained as a class action, which conflicts with § 901(b)'s instruction that it "may not" so proceed.
Sensibly read, Rule 23 governs procedural aspects of class litigation, but allows state law to control the size of a monetary award a class plaintiff may pursue.
The New York Legislature could have embedded the limitation in every provision creating a cause of action for which a penalty is authorized; § 901(b) operates as shorthand to the same effect.
Section 901(b) responds to an entirely different concern; it does not allow class members to recover statutory damages because the New York Legislature considered the result of adjudicating such claims en masse to be exorbitant. The fair and efficient conduct of class litigation is the legitimate concern of Rule 23; the remedy for an infraction of state law, however, is the legitimate concern of the State's lawmakers and not of the federal rulemakers.
Under the Court's reasoning—which attributes dispositive significance to the words "may not be maintained"—Rule 23 would preempt this provision, nevermind that Congress, by authorizing the promulgation of rules of procedure for federal courts, surely did not intend to displace state-created ceilings on damages. The Court suggests [130 S.Ct.
The notion that one directly impinges on Rule 23's domain, while the other does not, fundamentally misperceives the office of Rule 23. The absence of an inevitable collision between Rule 23 and § 901(b) becomes evident once it is comprehended that a federal court sitting in diversity can accord due respect to both state and federal prescriptions.
In sum, while phrased as responsive to the question whether certain class actions may begin, § 901(b) is unmistakably aimed at controlling how those [130 S.Ct.
Any doubt whether Rule 23 leaves § 901(b) in control of the remedial issue at the core of this case should be dispelled by our Erie jurisprudence, including Hanna, which counsels us to read Federal Rules moderately and cautions against stretching a rule to cover every situation it could conceivably reach. The Court states that "[t]here is no reason ... to read Rule 23 as addressing only whether claims made eligible for class treatment by some other law should be certified as class actions."
States may hesitate to create determinate statutory penalties in the future if they are impotent to prevent federal-court distortion of the remedy they have shaped. By finding a conflict without considering whether Rule 23 rationally should be read to avoid any collision, the Court unwisely and unnecessarily retreats from the federalism principles undergirding Erie.
Had the Court reflected on the respect for state regulatory interests endorsed in our decisions, it would have found no cause to interpret Rule 23 so woodenly—and every [130 S.Ct.
II Because I perceive no unavoidable conflict between Rule 23 and § 901(b), I would decide this case by inquiring "whether application of the [state] rule would have so important an effect upon the fortunes of one or both of the litigants that failure to [apply] it would be likely to cause a plaintiff to choose the federal court."
See Gasperini, 518 U.S. at 428, 116 S.Ct.
The provision held "substantive" for Erie purposes in Gasperini is also contained in the CPLR (§ 5501(c)), as are limitations periods, § 201 et seq., prescriptions plainly "substantive" for Erie purposes however they may be characterized for other purposes, see York, 326 U.S. at 109-112, 65 S.Ct.
See also, e.g., 1 Restatement (Second) of Conflict of Laws § 133, Reporter's Note, p. 369 (1969) (hereinafter Restatement) ("Under the rule of Erie ... the federal courts have classified the burden of persuasion as to contributory negligence as a matter of substantive law that is governed by the rule of the State in which they sit even though the courts of that State have characterized their rule as procedural for choice-of-law purposes.
Shady Grove also ranks § 901(b) as "procedural" because "nothing in [the statute] suggests that it is limited to rights of action based on New York state law, as opposed to federal law or the law of other states"; instead it "applies to actions seeking penalties under any statute."
See also ante at 1457-1458 (STEVENS, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (Section 901(b) cannot "be understood as a rule that... serves the function of defining New York's rights or remedies" because its "text ... expressly and unambiguously applies not only to claims based on New York law but also to claims based on federal law or the law of any other State.").
Shady Grove's suggestion that States must specifically limit their laws to domestic rights of action if they wish their enactments to apply in federal diversity litigation misses the obvious point: State legislators generally do not focus on an interstate setting when drafting statutes. Shady Grove also observes that a New York court has applied § 901(b) to a federal claim for relief under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA), 47 U.S.C.
The TCPA, the Supreme Court of Connecticut has recognized, thus "carves out an exception to th[e] general rule" that "when Erie ... is reversed ..., a state court hearing a federal case is normally required to apply federal substantive law": "Under § 227(b)(3) ... it is state substantive law that determines, as a preliminary matter, whether a federal action under the act may be brought in state court."
Weber v. U.S. Sterling Securities, Inc., 282 Conn. 722, 736, 924 A.2d 816, 826 (2007) (in TCPA action governed by New York substantive law, § 901(b) applied even though the claim was pursued in Connecticut state court).
1464, even though, as Shady Grove acknowledges, state courts often apply the forum's limitations period as a "procedural" bar to claims arising under the law of another State, see Reply Brief 24, n. 16; Tr. of Oral Arg. 16-17.
Similarly, federal courts sitting in diversity give effect to state laws governing the burden of proving contributory negligence, see Palmer v. Hoffman, 318 U.S. 109, 117, 63 S.Ct.
In short, Shady Grove's effort to characterize § 901(b) as simply "procedural" cannot successfully elide this fundamental norm: When no federal law or rule is dispositive of an issue, and a state statute is outcome affective in the sense our cases on Erie (pre and postHanna) develop, the Rules of Decision Act commands application of the State's law in diversity suits.
As this case starkly demonstrates, if federal courts exercising diversity jurisdiction are compelled by Rule 23 to award statutory penalties in class actions while New York courts are bound by § 901(b)'s proscription, "substantial variations between state and federal [money judgments] may be expected."
2211 (STEVENS, J., dissenting) ("A state-law ceiling on allowable damages ... is a substantive rule of decision that federal courts must apply in diversity cases governed by New York law.
1235 (in a diversity case, a plaintiff "barred from recovery in the state court ... should likewise be barred in the federal court"); York, 326 U.S. at 108-109, 65 S.Ct.
Just as Erie precludes a federal court from entering a deficiency judgment when a State has "authoritatively announced that [such] judgments cannot be secured within its borders," Angel v. Bullington, 330 U.S. 183, 191, 67 S.Ct.
832 (1947), so too Erie should prevent a federal court from awarding statutory penalties aggregated through a class action when New York prohibits this recovery.
2211. [130 S.Ct.
Congress surely never anticipated that CAFA would make federal courts a mecca for suits of the kind Shady Grove has launched: class actions seeking state-created penalties for claims arising under state law—claims that would be barred from class treatment in the State's own courts.
I would therefore hold that the New York Legislature's limitation on the recovery of statutory damages applies in this case, and would affirm the Second Circuit's judgment 