But I also agree with Justice GINSBURG that there are some state procedural rules that federal courts must apply in diversity cases because they function as a part of the State's definition of substantive rights and remedies.
Although the Enabling Act and the Rules of Decision Act "say, roughly, that federal courts are to apply state `substantive' law and federal `procedural' law," the inquiries are not the same.
The Enabling Act's limitation does not mean that federal rules cannot displace state policy judgments; it means only that federal rules cannot displace a State's definition of its own rights or remedies.
To the contrary, federal rules must be interpreted with some degree of "sensitivity to important state interests and regulatory policies," Gasperini v. Center for Humanities, Inc., 518 U.S. 415, 427, n. 7, 116 S.Ct.
2211, 135 L.Ed.2d 659 (1996), and applied to diversity cases against the background of Congress' command that such rules not alter substantive rights and with consideration of "the degree to which the Rule makes the character and result of the federal litigation stray from the course it would follow in state courts," Hanna, 380 U.S. at 473, 85 S.Ct.
And were federal courts to ignore those portions of substantive state law that operate as procedural devices, it could in many instances limit the ways that sovereign States may define their rights and remedies.
1451] The court must first determine whether the scope of the federal rule is "`sufficiently broad'" to "`control the issue'" before the court, "thereby leaving no room for the operation" of seemingly conflicting state law.
2211, will not collide with the state law. If, on the other hand, the federal rule is "sufficiently broad to control the issue before the Court," such that there is a "direct collision," Walker, 446 U.S. at 749-750, 100 S.Ct.
1978, the court must decide whether application of the federal rule "represents a valid exercise" of the "rulemaking authority...bestowed on this Court by the Rules Enabling Act."
1021, 149 L.Ed.2d 32 (2001) (avoiding an interpretation of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 41(b) that "would arguably violate the jurisdictional limitation of the Rules Enabling Act" contained in § 2072(b)). And when such a "saving" construction is not possible and the rule would violate the Enabling Act, federal courts cannot apply the rule.
§ 2072(b) (mandating that federal rules "shall not" alter "any substantive right" (emphasis added)); Hanna, 380 U.S. at 473, 85 S.Ct.
need not wholly blind itself to the degree to which the Rule makes the character and result of the federal litigation stray from the course it would follow in state courts"); see also Semtek Int'l Inc., 531 U.S. at 503-504, 121 S.Ct.
A federal rule, therefore, cannot govern a particular case in which the rule would displace a state law that is procedural in the ordinary use of the term but is so intertwined with a state right or remedy that it functions to define the scope of the statecreated right.
This application of the Enabling Act shows "sensitivity to important state interests," post at 1463, and "regulatory policies," post at 1460, but it does so as Congress authorized, by ensuring that federal rules that ordinarily "prescribe general rules of practice and procedure," § 2072(a), do "not abridge, enlarge or modify any substantive right," § 2072(b).
1453] that such rules also "not abridge, enlarge or modify any substantive right," § 2072(b) (emphasis added), and in so doing ignores the balance that Congress struck between uniform rules of federal procedure and respect for a State's construction of its own rights and remedies.
First, Justice SCALIA worries that if federal courts inquire into the effect of federal rules on state law, it will enmesh federal courts in difficult determinations about whether application [130 S.Ct.
The petitioner raised only the facial question whether "Rules 35 and 37 [of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure] are...within the mandate of Congress to this court" and not the specific question of "the obligation of federal courts to apply the substantive law of a state.
If the Federal Rule had in fact displaced a state rule that was sufficiently intertwined with a state right or remedy, then perhaps the Enabling Act analysis would have been different. Our subsequent cases are not to the contrary. III Justice GINSBURG views the basic issue in this case as whether and how to [130 S.Ct.
As explained above, I readily acknowledge that if a federal rule displaces a state rule that is "`procedural' in the ordinary sense of the term," S.A. Healy Co., 60 F.3d at 310, but sufficiently interwoven with the scope of a substantive right or remedy, there would be an Enabling Act problem, and the federal rule would have to give way.
Although, as discussed infra at 1469-1471, I do not accept the dissent's view of § 901(b), I also do not see how the dissent's interpretation of Rule 23 follows from that view. I agree with JUSTICE GINSBURG that courts should "avoi[d] immoderate interpretations of the Federal Rules that would trench on state prerogatives," post at 1461-1462, and should in some instances "interpre[t] the federal rules to avoid conflict with important state regulatory policies," post at 1462 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Applying Rule 23 Does Not Violate the Enabling Act As I have explained, in considering whether to certify a class action such as this one, a federal court must inquire whether doing so would abridge, enlarge, or modify New York's rights or remedies, and thereby violate the Enabling Act.
Faced with a federal rule that dictates an answer to a traditionally procedural question and that displaces a state rule, one can often argue that the state rule was really some part of the State's definition of its rights or remedies.
The mere fact that a state law is designed as a procedural rule suggests it reflects a judgment about how state courts ought to operate and not a judgment about the scope of state-created rights and remedies.
"It is true that both the Enabling Act and the Erie rule say, roughly, that federal courts are to apply state `substantive' law and federal `procedural' law," but the tests are different and reflect the fact that "they were designed to control very different sorts of decisions."
1460] should respect the plain textual reading of § 901(b), a rule in New York's procedural code about when to certify class actions brought under any source of law, and respect Congress' decision that Rule 23 governs class certification in federal courts.
Accordingly, I concur in part and concur in the judgment 