In those cases, we held that a unit of government may not condition the approval of a land-use permit on the owner's relinquishment of a portion of his property unless there is a "nexus" and "rough proportionality" between the government's demand and the effects of the proposed land use.
In this case, the St. Johns River Water Management District (District) believes that it circumvented Nollan and Dolan because of the way in which it structured its handling of a permit application submitted by Coy Koontz, Sr., whose estate is represented in this Court by Coy Koontz, Jr. The District did not approve his application on the condition that he surrender an interest in his land.
Nollan and Dolan "involve a special application" of this doctrine that protects the Fifth Amendment right to just compensation for property the government takes when owners apply for land-use permits.
The first is that land-use permit applicants are especially vulnerable to the type of coercion that the unconstitutional conditions doctrine prohibits because the government often has broad discretion to deny a permit that is worth far more than property it would like to take.
Nollan and Dolan accommodate both realities by allowing the government to condition approval of a permit on the dedication of property to the public so long as there is a "nexus" and "rough proportionality" between the property that the government demands and the social costs of the applicant's proposal.
The principles that undergird our decisions in Nollan and Dolan do not change depending on whether the government approves a permit on the condition that the applicant turn over property or denies a permit because the applicant refuses to do so.
See, e.g., Perry, 408 U.S., at 597, 92 S.Ct. 2694 (explaining that the government "may not deny a benefit to a person on a basis that infringes his constitutionally protected interests" (emphasis added)); Memorial Hospital, 415 U.S. 250, 94 S.Ct. 1076, 39 L.Ed.2d 306 (finding unconstitutional condition where government denied healthcare benefits).
A contrary rule would be especially untenable in this case because it would enable the government to evade the limitations of Nollan and Dolan simply by phrasing its demands for property as conditions precedent to permit approval.
Under the Florida Supreme Court's approach,  a government order stating that a permit is "approved if" the owner turns over property would be subject to Nollan and Dolan, but an identical order that uses the words "denied until" would not.
See Frost & Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Comm'n of Cal., 271 U.S. 583, 592-593, 46 S.Ct. 605, 70 L.Ed. 1101 (1926) (invalidating regulation that required the petitioner to give up a constitutional right "as a condition precedent to the enjoyment of a privilege"); Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U.S. 202, 207, 13 S.Ct. 44, 36 L.Ed. 942 (1892) (invalidating statute "requiring the corporation, as a condition precedent to obtaining a permit to do business within the State, to surrender a right and privilege secured to it by the Constitution"). See also Flower Mound, 135 S.W.3d, at 639 ("The government cannot sidestep constitutional protections merely by rephrasing its decision from `only if' to `not unless'").
E.g., United States v. American Library Assn., Inc., 539 U.S. 194, 210, 123 S.Ct. 2297, 156 L.Ed.2d 221 (2003) ("[T]he government may not deny a benefit to a person on a basis that infringes his constitutionally protected ... freedom of speech even if he has no entitlement to that benefit" (emphasis added and internal quotation marks omitted)); Wieman v. Updegraff, 344 U.S. 183, 191, 73 S.Ct. 215, 97 L.Ed. 216 (1952) (explaining in unconstitutional conditions case that to focus on "the facile generalization that there is no constitutionally protected right to public employment is to obscure the issue").
The Florida Supreme Court has said that the appellate court is the "proper forum to resolve" a "claim that an agency has applied a ... statute or rule in such a way that the aggrieved party's constitutional rights have been violated," Key Haven Associated Enterprises, 427 So.2d, at 158, and respondent has argued throughout this litigation that petitioner brought his unconstitutional conditions claim in the wrong forum.
For similar reasons, we decline to reach respondent's argument that its demands for property were too indefinite to give rise to liability under Nollan and Dolan. The Florida Supreme Court did not reach the question whether respondent issued a demand of sufficient concreteness to trigger the special protections of Nollan and Dolan. It relied instead on the Florida District Court of Appeals' characterization of respondent's behavior as a demand for Nollan/Dolan purposes.
This Court therefore has no occasion to consider how concrete and specific a demand must be to give rise to liability under Nollan and Dolan. Finally, respondent argues that we need not decide whether its demand for offsite improvements satisfied Nollan and Dolan because it gave petitioner another avenue for obtaining permit approval.
For that reason, respondent's offer to approve a less ambitious building project does not obviate the need to determine whether the demand for offsite mitigation satisfied Nollan and Dolan. We turn to the Florida Supreme Court's alternative holding that petitioner's claim fails because respondent asked him to spend money rather than give up an easement on his land.
See post, at 2605-2607 (opinion of KAGAN, J.). We note as an initial matter that if we accepted this argument it would be very easy for land-use permitting officials to evade the limitations of Nollan and Dolan. Because the government need only provide a permit applicant with one alternative that satisfies the nexus and rough proportionality standards, a permitting authority wishing to exact an easement could simply give the owner a choice of either surrendering an easement or making a payment equal to the easement's value.
See Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 44-49, 80 S.Ct. 1563, 4 L.Ed.2d 1554 (1960);  Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford, 295 U.S. 555, 601-602, 55 S.Ct. 854, 79 L.Ed. 1593 (1935); United States v. Security Industrial Bank, 459 U.S. 70, 77-78, 103 S.Ct. 407, 74 L.Ed.2d 235 (1982); see also Palm Beach Cty. v. Cove Club Investors Ltd., 734 So.2d 379, 383-384, (Fla.1999) (the right to receive income from land is an interest in real property under Florida law).
 Because of that direct link, this case implicates the central concern of Nollan and Dolan: the risk that the government may use its substantial power and discretion in land-use permitting to pursue governmental ends that lack an essential nexus and rough proportionality to the effects of the proposed new use of the specific property at issue, thereby diminishing without justification the value of the property.
The first is that the need to distinguish taxes from takings is not a creature of our holding today that monetary exactions are subject to scrutiny under Nollan and Dolan. Rather, the problem is inherent in this Court's long-settled view that property the government could constitutionally demand through its taxing power can also be taken by eminent domain.
In any event, the dissent's argument that land use permit applicants need no further protection when the government demands money is really an argument for overruling Nollan and Dolan. After all, the Due Process Clause protected the Nollans from an unfair allocation of public burdens, and they too could have argued that the government's demand for property amounted to a taking under the Penn Central framework.
* * * We hold that the government's demand for property from a land-use permit applicant must satisfy the requirements of Nollan and Dolan even when the government denies the permit and even when its demand is for money.
The Florida Supreme Court's judgment is reversed, and this case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.