In the paradigmatic case triggering review under Nollan v. California Coastal Comm'n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141, 97 L.Ed.2d 677 (1987), and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374, 114 S.Ct. 2309, 129 L.Ed.2d 304 (1994), the government approves a building permit on the condition that the landowner relinquish an interest in real property, like an easement.
The Nollan-Dolan standard applies not only when the government approves a development permit conditioned on the owner's conveyance of a property interest (i.e., imposes a condition subsequent), but also when the government denies a permit until the owner meets the condition (i.e., imposes a condition precedent).
When the government grants a permit subject to the relinquishment of real property, and that condition does not satisfy Nollan and Dolan, then the government has taken the property and must pay just compensation under the Fifth Amendment. But when the government denies a permit because an owner has refused to accede to that same demand, nothing has actually been taken.
The majority extends Nollan and Dolan to cases in which the government conditions a permit not on the transfer of real property, but instead on the payment or expenditure of money.
Second, no taking occurred in this case because Koontz never acceded to a demand (even had there been one), and so no property changed hands; as just noted, Koontz therefore cannot claim just compensation under the Fifth Amendment. The majority does not take issue with my first conclusion, and affirmatively agrees with my second.
Nollan and Dolan prevent the government from exploiting the landowner's permit application to evade the constitutional obligation to pay for the property.
They do so, as the majority explains, by subjecting the government's demand to heightened scrutiny: The government may condition a land-use permit on the relinquishment of real property only if it shows a "nexus" and "rough proportionality" between the demand made and "the impact of the proposed development."
Nollan and Dolan thus serve not to address excessive regulatory burdens on land use (the function of Penn Central), but instead to stop the government from imposing an "unconstitutional condition" — a requirement that a person give up his constitutional right to receive just compensation  "in exchange for a discretionary benefit" having "little or no relationship" to the property taken.
Accordingly, the Nollan-Dolan test applies only when the property the government demands during the permitting process is the kind it otherwise would have to pay for — or, put differently, when the appropriation of that property, outside the permitting process, would constitute a taking.
That is why Nollan began by stating that "[h]ad California simply required the Nollans to make an easement across their beachfront available to the public ..., rather than conditioning their permit to rebuild their house on their agreeing to do so, we have no doubt there would have been a taking" requiring just compensation. 483 U.S., at 831, 107 S.Ct. 3141.
And it is why Dolan started by maintaining that "had the city simply required petitioner to dedicate a strip of land ... for public use, rather than conditioning the grant of her permit to [d]evelop her property on such a dedication, a taking would have occurred." 512 U.S., at 384, 114 S.Ct. 2309.
Because the government is merely imposing a "general liability" to pay money, id., at 555, 118 S.Ct. 2131 (BREYER, J., dissenting) — and therefore is "indifferent as to how the regulated entity elects to comply or the property it uses to do so," id., at 540, 118 S.Ct. 2131 (opinion of KENNEDY, J.) — the order to repair wetlands, viewed independent of the permitting process, does not constitute a taking.
As I have described, the heightened standard of Nollan and Dolan is not a freestanding protection for land-use permit applicants; rather, it is "a special application of the doctrine of unconstitutional conditions, which provides that the government may not require a person to give up a constitutional right — here the right to receive  just compensation when property is taken" — in exchange for a land-use permit.
By applying Nollan and Dolan to permit conditions requiring monetary payments — with no express limitation except as to taxes — the majority extends the Takings Clause, with its notoriously "difficult" and "perplexing" standards, into the very heart of local land-use regulation and service delivery. 524 U.S., at 541, 118 S.Ct. 2131.
At bottom, the majority's analysis seems to grow out of a yen for a prophylactic rule: Unless Nollan and Dolan apply to monetary demands, the majority worries, "land-use permitting officials" could easily "evade the limitations" on exaction of real property interests that those decisions impose.
And if officials were to impose a fee as a contrivance to take an easement (or other real property right), then a court could indeed apply Nollan and Dolan. See, e.g., Norwood v. Baker, 172 U.S. 269, 19 S.Ct. 187, 43 L.Ed. 443 (1898) (preventing circumvention of the Takings Clause by prohibiting the government from imposing a special assessment for the full value of a  property in advance of condemning it).
 In sum, Nollan and Dolan restrain governments from using the permitting process to do what the Takings Clause would otherwise prevent — i.e., take a specific property interest without just compensation.
I would keep Nollan and Dolan in their intended sphere and affirm the Florida Supreme Court. II I also would affirm the judgment below for two independent reasons, even assuming that a demand for money can trigger Nollan and Dolan. First, the District never demanded that Koontz give up anything (including money) as a condition for granting him a permit.
A Nollan and Dolan apply only when the government makes a "demand[]" that a  landowner turn over property in exchange for a permit.
At that point, the District could simply have denied the applications; had it done so, the Penn Central test — not Nollan and Dolan — would have governed any takings claim Koontz might have brought.
As the Florida Supreme Court observed of this case: Were Nollan and Dolan to apply, the District would "opt to simply deny permits outright without discussion or negotiation rather than risk the crushing costs of litigation"; and property owners like Koontz then would "have no opportunity to amend their applications or discuss mitigation options." 77 So.3d 1220, 1231 (2011).
III Nollan and Dolan are important decisions, designed to curb governments from using their power over land-use permitting to extract for free what the Takings Clause would otherwise require them to pay for.
I respectfully dissent 