This is an action under section 473 of the Civil Practice Act and rules 210 to 212 of the Rules of Civil Practice, in which plaintiff asks that it be declared and adjudged that the plaintiff, upon giving such security as the court may direct, has the right, and is authorized to remove the present structures and improvements on or affecting the real property No. 1 East Seventy-ninth street, or any part thereof, except the party wall, and to erect new structures and improvements thereon in accordance with certain proposed plans and specifications.
The other parcels are: (a) No. 984 Fifth avenue, adjoining to the north, being twenty-five feet, six inches wide by one hundred and fifteen feet deep, devised to Howard Brokaw, a son, for life; (b) No. 985 Fifth avenue, adjoining to the north, being of the same dimensions, devised to Irving Brokaw, a son, for life; and (c) No. 7 East Seventy-ninth street, being a plot one hundred and two feet, two inches in depth by forty feet front and thirty-five feet in the rear, adjoining the corner plot to the east, given to the Farmers Loan and Trust Company in trust for the testator's daughter, Elvira Brokaw McNair, during the term of her life, with instructions to expend $250,000 under the direction of said daughter in the erection of a residence thereon.
In the 13th paragraph of testator's will, which devised 984 Fifth avenue to Howard Brokaw, and in the 14th paragraph, which devised 985 Fifth avenue to Irving Brokaw, each for life, there is contained a reciprocal restricting clause to the effect that "This property is devised, however, upon the express condition that so much of the land devised as has not been built upon shall forever remain open and unobstructed, in order that it may give access for light and air to this and the adjoining lot on the south (north), and that the airshaft occupying a portion of this lot, and which was provided for the common use and benefit of the buildings upon this lot and the lot adjoining it on the south (north), shall in no way be closed or obstructed.
These restrictions of the use of the property hereby devised are intended as conditions subsequent, and immediately upon the violation of them or either of them the title of the devisees hereunder to said house and lot No. 985 (984) Fifth Avenue shall cease and determine and said property be and become a part of my residuary estate; either or both of these restrictions may be abrogated and canceled by the agreement of the owners in fee of the said two lots, or of my said sons IRVING BROKAW and HOWARD CROSBY BROKAW. In case such owners unite in an agreement to cancel such restrictions, or either of them, such agreement shall be evidenced by a writing executed in like manner as is required for the execution of a deed to be recorded under the laws of this State." There is neither a similar nor any restriction in paragraph 15 in respect of premises No. 7 East Seventy-ninth street, the trust created for the testator's daughter, Elvira Brokaw McNair, during her life.
Coming, therefore, to plaintiff's claimed right to demolish the present residence and to erect in its place the proposed apartment, I am of the opinion that such demolition would result in such an injury to the inheritance as under the authorities would constitute waste.
The life estate given to plaintiff under the terms of the will and codicil is not merely in the corner plot of ground with improvements thereon, but, without question, in the residence of the testator.
The identical building which was erected and occupied by the testator in his lifetime and the plot of ground upon which it was built constitute that residence.
The general rule in this country is that the life tenant may do whatever is required for the general use and enjoyment of his estate as he received it.
In the instant case the inheritance was the residence of the testator — "my residence" — consisting of the present building on a plot of ground fifty-one feet two inches on Fifth avenue by one hundred and ten feet on Seventy-ninth street.
It would change the inheritance or thing, the use of which was given to the plaintiff as tenant for life, so that the inheritance or thing could not be delivered to the remaindermen or reversioners at the end of the life estate.
In Winship v. Pitts (3 Paige Ch. 259) Chancellor WALWORTH, although holding that an injunction was properly refused to restrict the erection of a building upon premises where the lease did not specifically limit the use thereof, nevertheless (at p. 262) said: "I have no hesitation in saying, that by the law of this State, as now understood, it is not waste for the tenant to erect a new edifice upon the demised premises; provided it can be done without destroying or materially injuring the buildings or other improvements already existing thereon.
In Agate v. Lowenbein ( 57 N.Y. 604, 607) the court said: "Had there been no license given to the defendants to do the acts of which the plaintiff complains, the injuries done to the property would have been, apparently, acts of waste, for which the plaintiff could, by the rules of the common law, have brought an action on the case in the nature of waste.
The right which the tenant has is to make use of the property.
The cases given by plaintiff are either cases where a prohibitory injunction against future waste has been sought and the parties have been refused the injunction and relegated to an action for damages for waste, or where, in condemnation proceedings or actions in equity, it appears that the equities between the parties are such that the technical waste committed has been ameliorated.
The three cases upon which the plaintiff principally relies are Melms v. Pabst Brewing Co. ( 104 Wis. 7); N.Y., O. W. Ry. Co. v. Livingston ( 238 N.Y. 300), and Doherty v. Allman (3 L.R. [App. Cas.] 709).
The court refused the injunction, leaving the aggrieved party to an action for damages, stating, among other things, as follows: "the external walls of the building are to be retained, and those external walls, where one part of the building is of a lower height than the rest, are to be raised, so that the building may be of a uniform height; internal changes are to be made, internal party walls are to be introduced, the flooring is to be altered in its level and six dwelling-houses are to be made out of this which is now one long store."
From the foregoing I am of the opinion, and it will accordingly be adjudged and declared that, upon the present facts, circumstances and conditions as they exist and are shown in this case, regardless of the proposed security and the expressed purpose of erecting the proposed thirteen-story apartment, or any other structure, the plaintiff has no right and is not authorized to remove the present structures on or affecting the real estate in question.
Submit decision and judgment accordingly on notice. 