It alleges that its bid of $205,975 was the low bid, and that it was and is a responsible bidder; but that the Government, nevertheless, awarded the contract to a bidder whose bid was higher than the bids of six other bidders, including the plaintiff, and $190,043 higher than plaintiff's low bid of $205,975.
The very fact that the bid was awarded to a bidder whose bid was higher than the bids of six other bidders, and that it was awarded at a price almost twice the low bid, put in by a responsible bidder, makes one strongly suspect discrimination and favoritism and a failure to accept that bid which was most advantageous to the Government, as OTAC was required to do under the Armed Services Procurement Act of 1947, 62 Stat. 21, 41 U.S.C.A. ยง 151 et seq.
In the meantime, plaintiff's president had appeared before the Select Committee on Small Business of the United States Senate in connection with the rejection of a prior bid of the Heyer Products Company for 3,000 low-voltage circuit testers, and in that hearing he had testified that that contract had been awarded to Weidenhoff Company, who was higher than six other bidders and whose bid was $116,730 higher than plaintiff's low bid of $134,100.
Plaintiff alleges that this was done in brazen defiance of the provisions of the Armed Services Procurement Act of 1947, requiring the acceptance of that bid which was most advantageous to the Government. After the rejection of its bid on July 3, 1952, and the award of the contract to Weidenhoff Company, plaintiff alleges he again appeared before the Select Committee on Small Business, which conducted further hearings and made Report No. 1092, 83d Cong., 2d sess., which plaintiffs sets out in its petition.
In its report the Committee set out the prior history of plaintiff's dealings with the Ordnance Department, as detailed above, and stated: "This incredible coincidence [that both on November 3, 1950 and on April 16, 1952, the contract should have been awarded to the Weidenhoff Company, whose bid in both instances was higher than the bids of six other bidders and nearly double that of the lowest bidder] would seem to indicate that the officials in charge of OTAC have no wish or will to abide by the spirit and purpose of the Armed Services Procurement Act of 1947."
It has been settled beyond controversy that most statutes governing the awarding of bids by governmental agencies are enacted for the benefit of the public who are served by these agencies, and not for the benefit of the bidders, and, therefore, that bidders have no right to sue on the ground that the provisions of such an Act have been violated, in that the contract had not been let to the lowest bidder.
No bidder would have put out $7,000 in preparing its bid, *413 as plaintiff says it did, if it had known the Ordnance Department had already determined to give the contract to the Weidenhoff Company. It would not have put in a bid unless it thought it was to be honestly considered.
In other words, it must be shown that bids were not invited in good faith, but as a pretense to conceal the purpose to let the contract to some favored bidder, or to one of a group of preferred bidders, and with the intent to wilfully, capriciously, and arbitrarily disregard the obligation to let the contract to him whose bid was most advantageous to the Government. Defendant's motion to dismiss plaintiff's petition is denied.