The plaintiff is Charles H. Quimby, individually and as assignee of Randall Motors, Inc. The defendant is Chrysler Corporation. The case was tried before a jury, which gave Quimby a verdict for $92,200.34.
Upon this assumption, Quimby made the following case: In 1944 Chrysler and Randall Motors, Inc., entered into a direct dealer agreement granting to Randall Motors the nonexclusive right to sell Chrysler and Plymouth motor vehicles and products within a prescribed area, including the city of Washington and nearby territory.
On January 26 Neely reported these facts by letter to J. A. O'Malley, General Sales Manager of Chrysler, at the home office in Detroit. At about this time Quimby had told Neely that he wanted to see Randall Motors continue with the business.
Neely wrote to O'Malley that Quimby was making an effort to obtain the business for himself, but he (Neely) would not under any circumstances recommend that he succeed Tom Randall. Neely recommended that a 90-day notice of termination of the agreement be given.
Thereafter Quimby had several conversations with Neely in the course of which Neely mentioned Mr. O'Malley and Mr. Condon of the Chrysler Office in Detroit. Sometime later (probably early March) Quimby suggested to Neely that it would help straighten out the situation if he (Quimby) went to see Mr. Condon or Mr. O'Malley. Neely told him to go ahead.
"The only one [he] could contact was Condon". He made an appointment with Condon. Condon was Sales Executive of the Chrysler Sales Division, and on the staff of the General Sales Manager. Quimby told Condon about the business of Randall Motors and his connection with it.
Condon also said that if Quimby wanted the franchise continued, he would have to get control of all the stock, and that Mrs. Randall would have to be paid off.
Neely told Barnhard he could make no commitment or even take an application, because "they" had given first refusal to an officer of the Randall Motors Company. Quimby proceeded to acquire all of the stock of Randall Motors. Sometime around April 10 the New York stockholders sold their 350 shares to Randall Motors for $56,000, or $160 a share.
About the middle of April Quimby reported to Neely that he either owned or controlled every share of stock of Randall Motors. Neely said that that was fine and he would get in touch with the factory and Quimby would hear from him.
*129 If his testimony is accepted and the jury evidently did accept it Quimby paid out $38,000 for Mrs. Randall's stock at a time when he had been assured that Randall Motors would get the franchise if he stood ready to transfer 51% of the stock to the man named by Chrysler. At that time May 9 Neely's promise ripened into a binding contract, which Quimby was willing and able to perform.
The jury might have concluded that Neely led Quimby on to buy Mrs. Randall's stock under repeated assurances that Randall Motors would get the franchise if Quimby accepted the successive conditions that Neely imposed, never intending, as indicated by his letter of January 26, that Quimby should have it.
When Neely told Quimby that Quimby would have to associate in the business an experienced automobile man, says Chrysler, the promise was withdrawn, citing illustration 4 from ยง 90 of the Restatement. But Neely's demand could be taken, not as an unqualified withdrawal of his promise, but as merely the imposition of an additional condition.
The court charged the jury as follows: "The first question relates to whether or not Quimby obtained the control of all of the outstanding shares of Randall as contended for by him on or about April 13, 1951.
In respect to this question, if you should conclude that he did not obtain the control of all of the outstanding shares as contended for by him on or about April 13, 1951, he would not have performed his obligations under the promise of Neely of March 13th and in such case your verdict would be for the defendant Chrysler. "On the other hand, if you should conclude from the evidence that he did obtain control of all of the outstanding shares of Randall, including Kitty Randall's on or about April 13, 1951, and so informed Neely of this fact on or about that date, then you should conclude that he had performed his obligations under the March 13th promise by Neely which then ripened into a contract."
They were, in our opinion, insufficient, because they contained no reference to the additional conditions imposed on Neely's promise before Quimby acquired Mrs. Randall's stock, and erroneously referred to the date of April 13 instead of May 9 as the date when the promise ripened into a contract.
Chrysler's argument is that neither Neely, the Regional Manager, nor Condon, the Sales Executive of the Chrysler Sales Division, had any authority to award a direct dealer's contract; that Quimby knew this, because the 1944 Chrysler contract with Randall Motors carried the signature of the Regional Manager as recommending approval and the signature of the General Sales Manager; and that nothing done by Chrysler could have justified Quimby in believing that in dealing with either Neely or Condon he was dealing with an agent authorized to bind Chrysler by a promise to award a dealer's franchise.
To hold Chrysler Quimby must produce some evidence of Chrysler's manifestation of consent to Quimby that Neely should act as its agent in awarding the franchise.
Certainly Condon's statements about the conditions that Quimby must meet, if he wanted the franchise, were those of someone undertaking in the General Manager's office to speak with authority for Chrysler. The jury might have reasonably found that Quimby had no reason to question that authority.
Possibly it may be so regarded, but it is also possible to infer that Condon, having stated conditions of his own, encouraged Quimby to believe that if Quimby complied with Condon's conditions and with such as Neely might prescribe, Randall Motors would get the franchise.
Quimby claimed three items of damages: (1) The sum of $60,000 for himself individually, representing damages for loss of his investment in the stock bought from Mrs. Randall; (2) The sum of $19,000, as assignee of Randall Motors, representing loss of profits for 90 days; (3) The sum of $33,000 as assignee, representing Randall Motors' loss on the sale of Chrysler and Plymouth parts and accessories.
On July 27 DiBrodi called Quimby. DiBrodi said that before Chrysler would take them back Randall Motors would have to package the parts and ship them to Philadelphia, and also would have to accompany each package with the original invoices.
Chrysler also contended that as a matter of law Randall Motors' failure to deliver and make written request within the period of thirty days from the expiration of the contract precluded any recovery for loss resulting from the subsequent sale of the parts and accessories, and asked the court so to instruct the jury.
The court submitted to the jury issues arising out of Quimby's contentions, and thus permitted the jury, if it accepted Quimby's testimony, to award damages for Randall Motors' loss.
The trial court, in its opinion denying a motion for a new trial, referred to DiBrodi's imposition of additional conditions on the purchase of parts and accessories as an anticipatory breach by Chrysler, and Quimby here attempts to justify this holding.
Under the facts of this case we think that Quimby was entitled first, to be made whole in respect of his investment of $38,000 in Mrs. Randall's stock, and second (as assignee), to recover Randall Motors' expectancy in respect of profits that might reasonably have been expected during a period of 90 days, at the end of which the contract was terminable by Chrysler. With respect to net profits there was evidence to support the claim in the net earnings of Randall Motors for the three months of February, March and April. Chrysler cites Goodman v. Dicker, 83 U. S.App.D.C. 353, 169 F.2d 684, in which expected profits were eliminated from a recovery of damages in a promissory estoppel case.
Chrysler argues that Chrysler's promise, on which Quimby relied, was made to Quimby, not to Randall Motors. It is clear that Quimby negotiated on behalf of Randall Motors, which, as the court below held, was to be regarded as a beneficiary of the contract.
The court charged the jury as follows: "If your verdict should be for the plaintiff, Quimby, his measure of damages in his own right would be the difference between the amount that you should find that Quimby paid to Mrs. Randall for the 250 shares of Randall representing stock owned by her, together with that owned by the estate of Tom Randall on May 9th and the value of those shares immediately after the breach of the contract on May 13, 1951.
If the case comes on again for trial, the jury should be charged, with respect to Quimby's claim for loss of value of his shares, that the measure of damages is the difference between $38,000 and any lesser amount representing 25/26 of the realizable value of the assets of Randall Motors on May 13.
Supplemental Opinion In our opinion filed in this case April 30 1958, we held that the verdict for plaintiff must be set aside and a new trial ordered because of the error in respect of the instructions to the jury relating to the issue of damages.
Moreover, the measure and the amount of damages are the same, whether the contract became effective in April (the date adopted by the trial court) or in May (the date adopted by this Court). The date of the breach is fixed May 13, 1951, when Chrysler failed to renew the license agreement.
The Issue of Injustice. The main thrust of Chrysler's memorandum is directed to the contention that to grant a partial retrial in this case would be unjust to Chrysler. It is earnestly contended that the case below was tried solely upon the theory that Quimby's claim was limited to a contract growing out of conversations in March, 1951; that the case was submitted to the jury on this theory alone; that because of the erroneous instruction of the court the jury never fairly resolved in plaintiff's favor the existence of a contract based on the subsequent conversations; and that Chrysler is entitled to have the jury re-find the terms of the contract. 6 Moore's Federal Practice, 3762.
The essential and vital requisite to cause them to ripen into a contract was the acquisition by Quimby of all of the stock of Randall Motors. This was the primary condition demanded by Chrysler in March and reiterated in April. The subsequent conditions were developments of the primary condition.
In brief Chrysler urges that it has not had its day in court on the effect of the subsequent conditions imposed by Neely in April. This argument is elaborated with a quotation from Quimby's request for instructions, by reference to the court's charge, and by reference to Quimby's brief on appeal.
We think that the verdict of the jury must be taken as a clear finding that Neely did give to Quimby the various assurances testified to, and that Quimby did, upon the faith of these assurances, acquire all the stock of Randall Motors. The evidence on *139 behalf of Quimby was ample to sustain this finding.
Chrysler suggests that Chrysler on retrial of the whole case would contend that the additional conditions imposed by Neely in April, 1951, for a renewal of the license agreement were never performed by Quimby, and that a partial new trial would deprive Chrysler of the opportunity to make such a contention.
As to the second condition that Quimby would sell 51% of his stock to one of three persons to be named by Chrysler it is clear that Chrysler prevented performance, because it never gave Quimby the three names.
On the motion for a new trial Chrysler contended that the verdict was contrary to the evidence, because no contract had resulted in April. The very purpose of Rule 51 is to abolish the old practice of general exceptions to the charge, on the basis of which counsel for the defeated litigant could examine the instructions at his leisure, after verdict, and take advantage of any slips of the trial judge in submitting to the jury the contentions and legal principles growing out of the case.
The cause is remanded to the Superior Court of New Castle County, with instructions to vacate that portion of the verdict and judgment fixing the amount of damages, and to award a new trial upon the issue of damages only 