The disputed property is a somewhat triangular-shaped tract of land located in the northeastern corner of Section 28, Township 10 North, Range 1 East in Jefferson County. Scott claims that the estate owns all property in Section 28, including the disputed acreage east of the wire fence, up to the section line between Sections 28 and 30.
Alternatively, Anderson–Tully argued that it acquired title to the property by adverse possession through its possession and use of the land from 1969 to 2010.
He noted the wire fence on the east side of the Scotts' property and found that the “20 1/10 [acres] outside of fence is included in total acreage.” However, Miller also made a note on the plat, within the twenty acres, which states that the property is “outside of fence & may be disputed.” Logan agreed with Miller's finding that the section line, not the fence line, was the property's border and that the twenty acres belonged to the Scotts. Logan walked the disputed property and stated that the terrain to the east of the fence was “very rough.” He found the wire fence was never intended to establish the property's border, but rather was a “convenience fence,” or “tree[-]line fence,” built to contain livestock.
So, according to Burkhardt, when surveying in the area, the “best evidence is what you find out there on the ground.... You've got to pay attention to the lines on the ground, evidence of possession; and quite often that's all you've really got to go by to determine boundary lines.” Burkhardt's 1969 survey found that the boundary line between the Scotts' and Anderson–Tully's properties ran along the wire fence, making the disputed twenty acres part of Anderson–Tully's property.
Witnesses also testified that the particular shade of blue paint was commonly known in the community as that of Anderson–Tully. From 1969 to 2010, Anderson–Tully maintained the disputed acreage and cut and harvested timber in 1990, 1999, and 2010.
He testified that the hunting-club members recognized the fence as the boundary line and were aware of the blue paint used by Anderson–Tully to mark its property's borders.
After reviewing the parties' property descriptions, the chancellor concluded that neither “accurately describe[s] the disputed tract to any certainty so as to read the various descriptions and know which party is the record title owner of the property.” However, the chancellor found that “the evidence overwhelmingly support[ed]” a finding of adverse possession in favor of Anderson–Tully. Scott filed a Mississippi Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b) motion for relief from judgment or, alternatively, for a new trial.
Scott appeals, arguing the chancellor erred in finding Anderson–Tully adversely possessed the disputed property.
The blue paint ran along the wire fence erected by the Scott family and included the disputed twenty acres in Section 28.
He was familiar with the blue boundary lines in the area, and he knew that the paint color was the one used by Anderson–Tully to mark its property lines.
The chancellor found Scott presented insufficient evidence to support his claim that he paid taxes on the disputed property.
We find the evidence sufficient to support the chancellor's finding that Anderson–Tully staked an ownership claim to the property from 1969 to 2010. 2.
The testimony established that after 1969, only Anderson–Tully used the disputed property.
Scott argues Anderson–Tully did not actually or hostilely possess the property because it did not care for or improve the land on a regular basis.
The chancellor found Anderson–Tully openly and notoriously possessed the land from 1969, when it painted its boundary lines blue, until 2010, when Scott filed suit.
The possession was also notorious, as the fence and blue paint were recognized in the community as the dividing line between the properties.
Glynn Brown, Anderson–Tully's regional manager over land in Jefferson County, testified that in 1990 and 1999, when timber was cut, Anderson–Tully accessed the disputed property through the Scotts' property.
Nations testified that everyone, including the Scotts, treated the fence as the dividing line and that the Scotts never used the property east of the fence.
No testimony was presented that the Scotts or anyone other than Anderson–Tully used the property on the east side of the fence after 1969.
Nations maintained that the Scotts only used the property to the west of the fence line; and Burkhardt testified he would have been notified if anyone had regularly crossed the blue line onto the twenty acres during his employment at Anderson–Tully. No one did.
Therefore, we find the chancellor did not abuse his discretion and affirm 