MONY appeals from the court's dismissal of its counterclaim for restitution of money that Iglesias obtained by submitting admittedly overstated expense reports.
To interpret this contract provision so as to grant each of those agents the power to control which products MONY offers within that particular agent's jurisdiction would give Iglesias and other agents the power to veto policy decisions made by MONY's upper management at the company's national headquarters.
Since MONY's counterclaim sounds in state law, a federal court may not hear it unless it falls within the ambit of supplemental jurisdiction or is supported by an independent jurisdictional basis.
See Toste Farm Corp. v. Hadbury, Inc., 70 F.3d 640, 646 (1st Cir.1995) (noting that a federal court has jurisdiction over a counterclaim only if it resides within the court's supplemental jurisdiction or is supported by an independent jurisdictional basis).
The parties appear to have assumed that MONY's counterclaim was within the court's supplemental jurisdiction.
See Fed.R.Civ.P.
The supplemental jurisdiction statute provides: "[I]n any civil action of which the district courts have original jurisdiction, the district courts shall have supplemental jurisdiction over all other claims that are so related to claims in the action within such original jurisdiction that they form part of the same case or controversy under Article III of the United States Constitution."
See McCaffrey v. Rex Motor Transp., Inc., 672 F.2d 246, 248 (1st Cir.1982); 6 Charles Alan Wright, Arthur R, Miller & Mary Kay Kane, Federal Practice & Procedure § 1414, at 99 (2d ed.1990).
The evidence relevant to these claims includes the terms of Iglesias's employment contract and documentary, testimonial or other evidence concerning MONY's actions in Puerto Rico.
The facts supporting the restitution claim include Iglesias's records and expense vouchers for travel and meals, his admissions during deposition, and documentary, testimonial or other evidence regarding MONY's reimbursement policies.
In these circumstances — lacking MONY's allegation that the counterclaim meets the jurisdictional amount, and lacking facts of record indicative that this is so — we must conclude that the district court was without jurisdiction to proceed.
See Fed.R.Civ.P.
Workers Union v. CenterMark Properties Meriden Square, Inc., 30 F.3d 298, 306 (2d Cir.1994) (addressing for first time on appeal whether district court lacked subject matter jurisdiction and remanding for determination of whether amount in controversy requirement had been met).
In these circumstances, the dismissal we now order shall be without prejudice to MONY's right, if it can do so in good faith, to amend the counterclaim within such time as the district court allows so as to allege a supportably proper jurisdictional amount. If MONY can do so, the district court may lift the jurisdictional bar.
MONY brought its counterclaim only four months after Iglesias's November 7, 1991 deposition revealing for the first time that he had continued to falsify his expenses even after similar improprieties were noted in 1987.
Even if we were to find unreasonable delay within the period between 1987, when MONY first learned that Iglesias had been padding expenses, and 1992, when, after having warned Iglesias earlier, MONY asserted its counterclaim based on the subsequent defalcations, we fail to see how any of that delay prejudiced Iglesias.
Costs awarded to MONY on the appeal from the district court's grant of summary judgment; each party to bear its own costs on the appeal from the dismissal of the counterclaim 