I disagree with the premises set out in the opinion and the conclusions of law based thereon. 56 This case comes to us on the motions of the defendant corporation and of the defendant Charles L. Conroy, the president and general manager of the corporation, to dismiss plaintiff's amended complaint for specific performance, or, in the alternative, money damages against Conroy alone, on an alleged contract between the plaintiff and the defendants. 57 The original complaint was for specific performance only.
The plaintiff alleged that the first four letters between the parties, under date of February 20, February 29, March 14, and April 16, 1956, constituted "a contract between defendants  and plaintiff for the sale of the assets of defendant Anchor." It was to the original complaint that defendant Fritsch filed an answer, in effect joining in the complaint without costs to him.
It appears from the record that Fritsch filed no pleading whatsoever to this amended complaint which is before us now. 59 The trial court again sustained the separate motions of the corporation and the defendant Conroy to dismiss the amended complaint for specific performance, including the alternate count for money damages, on essentially the same grounds that the motions were sustained to the original complaint. 60 By defendants' motions to dismiss the amended complaint the following contentions, among others, are made: (1) There was no meeting of the minds between the parties to the alleged contract; (2) the Statute of Frauds and the parol evidence rule excluded the oral conversations pleaded; (3) specific performance will not lie to compel sale of the corporation's assets on the alleged contract of the two individual controlling stockholders. 61 It is conceded by the plaintiff, and recognized by the majority opinion, that there is no binding contract between these parties except as the same may be established by parol evidence in explanation of the correspondence. 62 For the purpose of this dissent, it is necessary to set out the substance of these letters from which I conclude that their literal and legal interpretation does not warrant  the conclusion that there was ever a meeting of the minds of the parties or that an agreement was ever entered into in writing by the defendants or either of them.
This letter which was on the letterhead of the corporation, but signed by Conroy and Fritsch, individually, reads: "You may consider this as a letter of intent authorizing you to make the survey you deem necessary to make your offer a firm and binding one;" and requires the investigation to be kept secret from everyone at Anchor, and in Anchor's trade, except Conroy and Fritsch. Then it assures plaintiff that should it make a "firm offer" within 50 days from this date, Conroy and Fritsch would be willing to enter into a contract with plaintiff for $4,025,000 on certain terms and conditions taken from the earlier refused option proposal, but subject to four specific additional terms and provisions, referred to as "exceptions" which are set out in the court's opinion as exceptions (a), (b), (c), and (d). 66 Plaintiff's letter of March 14 to Conroy and Fritsch acknowledges receipt of their letter of February 29, assures  them that its investigation and audit would be on the required confidential basis, and then points out two "minor matters" for clarification, the first of which is so distorted in the majority opinion that it is set forth here: "I.
The letter of February 20 sought an option for $4,023,500, plus $500 each to support restrictive covenants from Conroy, Fritsch, and one Leubkeman. Leubkeman was eliminated from the restrictive covenant by exception (c), so the price suggested was $4,024,000, plus $1,000 to support the restrictive covenants of Conroy and Fritsch. Conroy and Fritsch agreed to these clarification by initialing and returning a carbon of the letter, as requested by plaintiff. 67 The substance of plaintiff's letter to the defendant, under date of April 26, 1956, is set out in the majority opinion, but, as I view it, the essence of this letter has been misapprehended. 68 Pleaded as a part of plaintiff's amended complaint is Borg-Warner's letter under date of July 12, 1956, addressed to Conroy, which letter is not alluded to in the majority opinion.
Indeed, in the only paragraph of the letter of February 29 expressing contractual intent, the offer invited from plaintiff was expressed as "a firm offer," — "you are assured that should you make a firm offer within 50 days * * * we are willing to enter into a contract with you." 71 I can find nothing in the letter of February 29 from Conroy and Fritsch to warrant the statement in the majority opinion that this letter is ambiguous.
The most that can be said about this letter is that it asks for an extension of time to April 26 and that  the purchase price be adjusted to $4,024,000, which clarifications were accepted by Conroy and Fritsch when they initialed this letter as requested. 74 The letters of February 20, February 29, March 14, and April 26 are made a part of paragraph 5 of plaintiff's amended complaint by reference.
The two later conversations on May 8 and July 10 seek to show a meeting of the minds by parol evidence. 80 There is no question but that the Statute of Frauds is applicable here and that parol evidence and allegations based upon such evidence must be excluded. 81 This court has decided too many times for the rule to be questioned: "to enable a party to a contract for any interest in land to enforce the specific performance of it the contract must be in writing, and this means that the whole contract must be written, so that all its terms and provisions can be ascertained from the writing itself, without the necessity of a resort to extrinsic evidence."
It is my opinion that the majority opinion in this case reaches a result contrary to long established principles of law 