The Kiekels appeal, arguing (1) the district court erred in determining that Four Colonies could impose the property use restriction through a bylaw amendment, (2) the district court erred by using the wrong standard in determining that the restriction was enforceable, and (3) the district court's factual and legal findings were not supported by substantial competent evidence.
Because Four Colonies did not have the authority to impose a property use restriction through a bylaw amendment, we reverse the district court's decision denying the Kiekels' request for declaratory judgment.
However, Four Colonies cancelled the vote on the amendment because it subsequently determined that the proposed bylaw was in conflict with the Declaration. In October 2004, Four Colonies proposed another bylaw amendment that would impose various limitations on lot owners' rights to rent their property, including:     "(1) a prohibition against a currently rented property being rented after any change in ownership of that property following the adoption of the By-Laws amendment; (2) a prohibition against any property not rented as of the adoption of the By-Laws amendment from being thereafter rented; (3) a requirement that all lease agreements be submitted to the Association's Board for approval every twelve months; (4) a grant of authority to the Association to terminate any lease and evict any tenant in the event a property owner fails to comply with the requirements set forth in the By-Laws amendment; and (5) a provision that the Association be entitled to recover all costs and attorney fees in terminating any lease and evicting any tenant pursuant to the terms set forth in the By-Laws amendment."
Four Colonies proposed the 2004 bylaw amendment after receiving numerous complaints from lot owners about the conduct and behavior of tenants who rented property in the subdivision.
In response, the Kiekels filed a petition for declaratory judgment with the Johnson County District Court. In their petition, the Kiekels argued the 2004 bylaw amendment was void because it conflicted with the Declaration. The Kiekels asked the court (1) to declare the bylaw amendment void; (2) to declare that the demands made by Four Colonies were unenforceable; (3) to declare that Four Colonies had no power to end rental agreements; (4) to find that Four Colonies knowingly attempted to impair property rights inconsistent with the Declaration; (5) to find Four Colonies' actions contrary to its fiduciary duty; and (6) to award attorney fees to the Kiekels. Four Colonies filed a counterclaim asking the district court to enjoin the Kiekels from renting their properties and to order them to sell their lots to owners who would occupy the residences.
Petition for declaratory judgment On appeal, the Kiekels claim the district court erred in finding that the 2004 bylaw amendment was not in conflict with the Declaration. The Kiekels contend the district court incorrectly interpreted the Declaration as giving Four Colonies the authority to restrict lot owners from renting their properties through an amendment to the Bylaws. The Kiekels maintain that any restriction on the lot owners from renting their properties can be accomplished only through an amendment to the Declaration. The district court framed the issue in this case as whether the 2004 bylaw amendment conflicted with the Declaration. The district court determined that because the bylaw amendment did not eliminate the Kiekels' right to rent their property, the bylaw amendment did not conflict with the Declaration. However, a more accurate statement of the issue is whether Four Colonies could impose a post-purchase property use restriction on lot owners through an amendment to the Bylaws. Before analyzing this issue, some legal background on the creation of homeowners associations would be helpful.
In 1997, Four Colonies proposed an amendment to the Bylaws that would have temporarily prevented lot owners from renting their properties, but Four Colonies withdrew the amendment because it subsequently  determined that the proposed bylaw was in conflict with the Declaration. We disagree with the district court's conclusion that the bylaw amendment did not conflict with the Declaration. The bylaw amendment essentially eliminated the right to rent property in the Four Colonies subdivision, except it contained a grandfather provision for lots that were currently being rented.
The amendment further granted the board the authority to terminate any lease and evict the tenant in the event the lot owner failed to comply with the requirements set forth in the Bylaws. The bylaw amendment contained extensive property use restrictions concerning the rental of property in the Four Colonies subdivision which only could be accomplished through an amendment to the Declaration. The Declaration, as the enabling document, could have delegated authority to the Four Colonies' Board of Directors to impose property use restrictions through the passage of bylaws.
Four Colonies cannot circumvent the intent of the Declaration, the enabling document, by subsequently amending the Bylaws. We conclude the district court erred in finding that Four Colonies could impose rental restrictions through an amendment to the Bylaws. The Declaration could have authorized Four Colonies to restrict the owners' rental rights had more specific language been utilized.
In this case, however, it is clear that the Declaration intended any property use restrictions, including restrictions on renting, to be achieved through an amendment to the Declaration. Because Four Colonies failed to properly amend the Declaration, the bylaw amendment imposing rental restrictions is void and unenforceable.
However, to impose restrictions on owners' rights to rent their properties, Four Colonies must do so through an amendment to the Declaration. We conclude the district court erred by denying the Kiekels' petition for declaratory judgment.
Four Colonies' request to enjoin the Kiekels from renting their property was based upon the language of the original Declaration. On appeal, Four Colonies argues the district court erred (1) in  finding that the Kiekels' renting did not violate the Declaration's commercial use restriction and (2) in finding that the Kiekels' renting did not violate the Declaration's noxious activity restriction.
In denying injunctive relief, the district court first found that although Four Colonies had shown that tenants living in the subdivision were more likely than property owners to throw disruptive parties, have unauthorized people living with them, improperly  store personal property, and fail to clean up after their pets, Four Colonies had failed to prove that the Kiekels' tenants were more likely than other tenants to engage in these activities.
Furthermore, Four Colonies could not restrict the Kiekels from renting their property by amending the Bylaws rather than by amending the Declaration. The 2004 bylaw amendment imposing rental restrictions is void and unenforceable.
Affirmed in part and reversed in part 