Service on MacArthur was attempted under the provisions of Act 347 of the General Assembly of Arkansas for 1947 (Ark.Stats., Section 27-340) which authorizes service on the Secretary of State for the State of Arkansas with respect to any "non-resident person, firm, partnership, general or limited, or any corporation not qualified under the Constitution, and Laws of this State as to doing business herein" who has done any business or performed any character of work or service in the State. The Marshal's return as to Smith recites that the writ came to hand on July 21, 1958, and that on the same day he served the same "by personally delivering to him a copy of this writ, together with a copy of the Complaint, on the Braniff Airplane, Flight No. 337, non-stop flight from Memphis, Tenn. to Dallas, Texas, said copy being delivered to him at 5:16 P.M. at which time the said airplane was in the Eastern District of Arkansas and directly above Pine Bluff, Arkansas, in said District." The motion to quash filed by MacArthur alleges that he "has not done any business or performed any character of work or service in the State of Arkansas and has not appointed the Secretary of State of the State of Arkansas as an Agent for acceptance of service of process upon him", and that "there has been no lawful service of process upon (him) and the Court is without jurisdiction over his person".
Taking up first the motion of Ronnie Smith, it is noted that he does not question the recitals in the Marshal's return to the effect that he was served with a copy of the summons and of the complaint while he was a passenger on a Braniff airplane at a time when said aircraft *444 was physically above the City of Pine Bluff in the Eastern District of Arkansas. His position is simply that at the time he was served, he was not within the "territorial limits" of the State of Arkansas, as required by Rule 4(f) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, 28 U.S. C.A.  In their briefs in connection with Smith's motion counsel on both sides state that they have been unable to find any case dealing with the specific problem in hand.
Nonetheless, the Court is persuaded that a person moving in interstate commerce across the State of Arkansas in a regular commercial aircraft, flying in the regular navigable airspace above the State, is within the "territorial limits" of the State and is amenable to service under the provisions of Rule 4(f), supra.
In approaching this question it is well to keep in mind that we are not here concerned with any problem of conflicting regulatory provisions of State and federal governments such as were involved in Alleghany Airlines, Inc., v. Village of Cedarhurst, D.C.N.Y., 132 F. Supp. 871, affirmed, 2 Cir., 238 F.2d 812, or with any problem of the taxable situs of aircraft such as confronted the Court in Braniff Airways v. Nebraska State Board of Equalization and Assessment, 347 U.S. 590, 74 S. Ct. 757, 98 L. Ed. 967, or with any claim of surface ownership extending upward under the common law "ad coelum" doctrine such as was presented in Causby v. United States, 60 F. Supp. 751, 104 Ct.Cl. 342, reversed United States v. Causby, 328 U.S. 256, 66 S. Ct. 1062, 90 L. Ed. 1206, and in Antonik v. Chamberlain, 81 Ohio App. 465, 78 N.E.2d 752.
The narrow question for us to decide is whether for service purposes, the passengers on a commercial aircraft are within the territorial limits of the State over which the plane happens to be flying at a particular time.
Obviously, the only rational and legal basis upon which State jurisdiction in the respects above mentioned could be asserted is that an aircraft flying over the State and its passengers are within the borders or limits of the State. That such assertions of jurisdiction are valid where they do not conflict with controlling federal legislation has been recognized by the Supreme Court of the United States in Braniff Airlines v. Nebraska Board of Equalization and Assessment, supra.
It is true that in the Air Commerce Act of 1926 Congress declared that: "The United States of America is declared to possess and exercise complete and exclusive national sovereignty in the air space above the United States, including the air space above all inland waters and the air space above those portions of the adjacent marginal high seas, bays, and lakes, over which by international law or treaty or convention the United States exercises national jurisdiction.
That the contrary is true, is shown by the opinion in the Braniff case, supra, wherein the Court, after quoting from 49 U.S. C.A. ยง 176(a), set forth above, went on to say:  "* * * The 1938 Act also declares `a public right of freedom of transit' for air commerce in the navigable air space to exist for any citizen of the United States. 52 Stat. 980, ยง 3, 49 U.S.C. ยง 403, 49 U.S.C.A. ยง 403.
In addition, it would appear that the only basis upon which this court could find that MacArthur had done any business or performed any work or services in Arkansas would be the proposition, advanced by the plaintiffs, that at all pertinent times the defendant, Smith, was the agent of MacArthur. The issue of the existence and extent of Smith's agency for the other defendants involves disputed factual questions, as all parties recognize; and it appears from the pleadings that those questions go not only to the matter of jurisdiction but in part to the ultimate merits of the case as well.
Further ordered that ruling on the motion of John D. MacArthur to quash service of summons upon him be, and the same hereby is, reserved until the trial.