Following that incident, Mr. T. Stockton Matthews, president of the club, wrote Dr. Baker a letter in which in part he said: "I was shocked to learn of the most unfortunate annoyance and damage caused you and Mrs. Baker last Saturday by hounds of the Howard County Hunt. I immediately got in touch with Mrs. Clark and others whom I thought might know some more of the circumstances, with the concern particularly of the injury to Mrs. Baker and the hope of avoiding the possibility of any serious infection from the wound.
In the conduct of the Hunt and in the control of the hounds, we have endeavored always to merit the goodwill and cordial interest of all those in the community who are in sympathy with good sport and with the aims and purposes of the organization to further the best interest of Howard County." Notwithstanding the assurances in the letter, Dr. Baker complained that no real effort was made to keep the hounds off his property, that they trampled his crops, broke some hot frames, disturbed his rabbits and his chickens, and so annoyed Mrs. Baker that she left the place, and that on one occasion in February, 1936, he had been compelled to shoot several of them to get them off his property, where they were frightening his chickens.
In their answer the defendants averred that "members of the Howard County Hunt have only ridden through the Complainants' property on one occasion during the past five years; and the said pack of fox hounds have crossed the Complainants' property not more than four times during said period of five years."
They further alleged that the injuries to Mrs. Baker "were suffered" more than three years before the suit, and that whatever rights she might have had "by reason" of those injuries "were barred by limitations and laches," and, while they admitted that "their pack of fox hounds" did cross the Baker property in February, 1936, they denied that they terrified the chickens or destroyed "freshly laid eggs," and as to that occasion they further said "that Laurence H. Baker, one of the above named Complainants, did wilfully and without any just cause whatsoever, deliberately shoot into the said pack of fox hounds, as a result of which one of them died shortly thereafter and another is seriously and permanently injured, and these respondents aver that the said pack of fox hounds at the time of the shooting as aforesaid in no way molested the Complainants or their property but were in the act of pursuing a fox."
The important questions presented by the appeal are whether equity may afford injunctive relief against a series of trespasses which, while not continuous, are nevertheless part of a single course of conduct which seriously interferes with the right of a landowner to the peaceful enjoyment of his property, and, if it may, whether the appellants have made out a case for such relief.
Jesse Titus, who was employed by Baker on the farm in the fall and early winter of 1935-1936, said that he saw the hounds on the Baker farm four times in the four months of his employment there, and he gave this graphic description of the last occasion on which he saw them: "But in January, one Saturday afternoon I was down fixing the fences and there was a bunch of dogs — I would say twenty-five or thirty, I didn't count them.
It was directed mainly to developing an insinuation that Mrs. Baker had left home, not to escape the fox hounds, but to earn a legacy, a wholly irrelevant and quite gratuitous inquiry, to proving that the gentle and timid nature of defendants' hounds precluded the possibility of their having attacked Mrs. Baker, and that their fidelity to the business in hand during the hunts made it extremely unlikely that they would leave the scent of the fox to molest such irrelevant creatures as rabbits and chickens, to showing that, while the hounds were not always in sight of the hunters, the hunters were so familiar with their notes they could tell where they were at remote distances, at times as far as two miles, not "within a foot or so, either side," but whether they were on the Baker property or the McCartney property which adjoins it.
It also appeared from his testimony that, on the occasion when several of the hounds were shot by Baker, Bowen knew they were on the Baker property, but, prior to the shooting had made no effort to call them off, although he said, "I can stop them whenever I find them, any place at any time."
A. The same reason he wanted to say this pack of hounds bit Mrs. Baker. Q. After you heard he wanted a fence around his property did you make any effort to have your huntsman keep the hounds off the property?
A. No, because they very seldom went over toward Mr. Baker's." It also appeared without contradiction that packs of fox hounds other than those of defendants are kept by different persons in the neighborhood of the Baker farm, but there was nothing in the evidence to indicate that they went on the property.
Without further elaboration of the evidence it is sufficient to say that it shows without any substantial doubt that the defendants' hounds have repeatedly overrun the Baker farm, have done substantial injury to their property, that defendants have made no serious effort to prevent the trespasses, and that the resulting damage is of such a character that the Bakers can obtain no adequate relief therefor in an action at law.
In that case (pages 80-82) it is said: "There would seem to be no reason why the owner of a dog, who unlawfully and negligently permitted trespass upon the rights of another and permitted the animal to go upon the premises where such animal had no right to be, and to invade the legal rights of another, and, while such trespasser, commits an injury to the person or property of one whose rights have been invaded, should not be liable for such damages.
Whatever may be said for the soundness and good sense of that reasoning, it is contrary to what seems still to be the weight of authority, and in this state, at least, the rule stated in Goode v. Martin, 57 Md. 606, that to subject the owner of a dog to liability in damages to one injured by it, it is necessary to show that the owner had knowledge that, because of its disposition, it was likely to inflict such injuries, has never been overruled, but in Buck v. Brady, 110 Md. 568, 73 A. 277, in the case of a mad dog, the rule was modified to the extent of placing upon the owner, in an action against him for injuries inflicted upon the plaintiff by his dog, the burden of showing that he exercised the caution which a reasonable man would have shown to detect the danger and guard others against it.
From these cases and the statements of textwriters it may be said that, while the owner of a dog which he has no reason to believe is dangerous or likely to inflict harm upon the persons or property of others, is not liable for its trespasses, committed of its own volition while roaming abroad, he is liable if he either takes it himself where he knows that, because of its training, nature, and instinct, it will probably damage the property of others, or if with that knowledge he permits it to stray beyond his control.
Applying that rule to the facts of this case, the conclusion seems inevitable that, after the defendants in this case had been warned in 1933 that their hounds, while hunting in the neighborhood of the appellants' farm, were likely to trespass thereon and inflict damage upon his property, they were under a duty to so control their hounds as to prevent further trespass.
It is true that, apart from a statute conferring it, a landowner has no right to kill a dog which is merely trespassing (3 C.J. 153), but even at common law he may kill it in defense of his person, his property, or of other persons, where circumstances justify a reasonable belief that so extreme and drastic a measure is necessary to protect himself, his family or his property from harm.
In Waring v. Stinchcomb, 141 Md. 569, 583, 119 A. 336, 340, the court quoted with approval this statement, found in Shipley v. Ritter, 7 Md. 408: "It is the settled law of this state, that although an injunction will not be granted to restrain a trespasser merely because he is a trespasser, yet equity will interfere where the injury is irreparable or where full and adequate relief cannot be granted at law, or where the trespass goes to the destruction of the property as it had been held and enjoyed, or * * * to prevent multiplicity of suits."
The court denied the injunction because no case was shown of an "intention to trespass on the lands of the plaintiffs," and weight was given to the suggestion that it was impossible to keep literally the undertaking that the hunt would not trespass on plaintiffs' land, because no one could tell where the fox would go, and that the hounds would follow the fox.
The decree appealed from must therefore be reversed. 