Weber testified that although he did not think it was necessary for Plaintiff to hire an attorney, this was not the basis for his decision not to recommend her to Level III.
In sum, Weber testified that his decision not to recommend Plaintiff was not based on her religion or in retaliation for hiring an attorney, but was the result of his concern that she could not handle the responsibilities of a principal at P.S.
Plaintiff subsequently filed a claim of religious discrimination and retaliation with the New York Human Rights Commission in June 1993 (Ex.
The jury unanimously found that Plaintiff did not prove that the BOE, Community School District 21, Donald Weber, or Michael Miller "discriminated against her based on her religion," (Tr. 1375), and it found that Plaintiff had not proven that the BOE, Community School District 21, Donald Weber, or Michael Miller "retaliated against her because of her complaining of religious discrimination or because she hired an attorney."
See Burke v. Spartanics Ltd., 252 F.3d 131, 136 (2d Cir.2001); Ryduchowski v. Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, 203 F.3d 135, 142 (2d Cir.2000) (holding district court erred in setting aside jury verdict and entering judgment as a matter of law).
Analysis a) Plaintiff Carries the Burden of Persuasion First, Plaintiff argues for judgment as a matter of law on the basis that there is overwhelming circumstantial evidence to support her claim of religious discrimination by her employers and defendants have failed to supply evidence sufficient to  support their asserted legitimate business reason for not promoting Plaintiff.
In making this argument, Plaintiff implies that by having established her prima facie case, she presented the jury with a presumption of discrimination that shifted the burden of disproving such discrimination to defendants.
In the instant case, the facts presented by Plaintiff were sufficient to establish a prima facie case at the summary judgment stage and to proceed to trial.
Rather, this court considers the sole determinative issue, whether or not a reasonable jury could have concluded that Plaintiff failed to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that defendants' employment-related actions  were motivated by illegal discrimination or retaliation.
b) Plaintiff's Claim of Religious Discrimination In arguing that Plaintiff has proven as a matter of law the defendants' discriminatory motive, Plaintiff essentially reargues the facts presented at trial.
In other words, the jury might have disbelieved Weber's proffered reason for his decision, yet still not believed that Plaintiff had proven illegal discrimination was a motivating factor.
As a factual matter, defendants presented sufficient evidence upon which a jury could believe their proffered reasons were true, or at least have concluded that discrimination was not a motivating factor.
While evidence introduced by Plaintiff could have led a reasonable jury to disbelieve Weber, the evidence was not so "overwhelming[ly] ... in favor of the movant that reasonable and fair minded persons could not arrive at a verdict against [her]."
Accordingly, I find that a reasonable jury could conclude, as did the jury in this case, that Plaintiff failed to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that defendants acted with a discriminatory motive.
c) Plaintiff's Claim of Retaliation Plaintiff also argues that she has proven retaliation by defendants as a matter  of law.
With respect to Defendant Miller, Plaintiff argues that this court should find his testimony that he did not have knowledge of her participation in a protected activity as "incredible as a matter of law" and that this court should "infer" that Miller had knowledge because the SCOI determined that Miller had retaliated against Plaintiff.
Therefore, the jury was not bound to find, as Plaintiff would have it, that the SCOI findings or their adoption by the BOE establish retaliatory conduct as a matter of law under the meaning of Title VII.
I further instructed the jurors that they could find retaliation by the BOE, Community School District 21 and Weber "even if Miller denies direct knowledge of the plaintiff's claims of religious discrimination" (Tr. 1356), and the jury received instructions on the meaning of constructive discharge as a form of adverse employment action.
Considering the SCOI was only one piece of evidence among many, I find that a reasonable jury could conclude that the actions taken by the defendants were not retaliatory.
Second, the defendants presented evidence upon which a reasonable jury could conclude that the various employmentrelated actions were not "adverse," regardless of defendants' knowledge of Plaintiff's complaints.
Based on this evidence, the jury could reasonably conclude that the change in office space, which occurred two years prior, was not an adverse employment action directed at Plaintiff's complaints of religious discrimination.
Similarly, the jury could reasonably conclude  that the fact that Plaintiff was responsible for more bus and lunchroom duties was not retaliatory since these were the same bus and lunchroom duties that Mr. Sealey had performed as assistant principal prior to Plaintiff's return to this position.
While the examples discussed above do not account for every point of fact which Plaintiff raises to support her motion for judgment as a matter of law on the retaliation claim, they amply demonstrate the sufficient conflicting evidence as to the motivations of the defendants.
Thus, I find that a reasonable jury could conclude that Plaintiff failed to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendants retaliated against Plaintiff because of her complaints of discrimination.
Analysis First, Plaintiff argues that the complete lack of credibility of defendants Miller and Weber taken together with the substantial evidence in her favor warrant a new trial.
I do not find that defendants Miller and Weber were so lacking in credibility as witnesses that the jury could not have properly believed all, or part, of their testimony.
In Wilburn v. Eastman Kodak Co., 180 F.3d 475 (2d Cir.1999), the Second Circuit held that the trial judge did not err in denying plaintiff's motion for a new trial where the jury had deliberated for only twenty minutes.
Plaintiff argues that this so severely limited her ability to rebut statements made by Weber and Miller that it amounts to grounds for a new trial.
Therefore, it was within this court's discretion to move forward  once the jury had been selected, rather than delaying the start of trial by a day or more so that Plaintiff would not have to take the stand before Weber and Miller.
Accordingly, I find that the order of presenting evidence and witnesses was managed in accordance with Rule 611 and that Plaintiff had adequate opportunity at the time of trial to remedy any potential prejudice that she believed would result from the order of witnesses.
Improperly Admitted Evidence Plaintiff's fourth ground for a new trial is based on the admission of two exhibits, her unredacted tax returns and a letter written by the interim Superintendent of the Plainview school, which explained why Plainview was denying Plaintiff tenure.
Specifically, Plaintiff argues that defendants caused her substantial prejudice by  suggesting, without any factual support, that Plaintiff was withholding, or had destroyed, various pieces of evidence or witness testimony that would either fail to support her claim or, alternatively, exonerate Defendants.
Perry, 115 F.3d at 150. d) Plaintiff is Not Entitled to a New Trial Having considered all the evidence presented at trial, and for all the reasons discussed above, I do not believe that the jury reached a "seriously erroneous result" in deciding that Plaintiff had not carried her burden of proof and I do not find that the verdict is a "miscarriage of justice."
Conclusion For all the reasons discussed above it is hereby ORDERED that Plaintiff's motion for judgment as a matter of law or, in the alternative, for a new trial is DENIED in its entirety.