In Butterfield v. Byron, 153 Mass. 517 , where the owner was to do a part of the work in the erection of a building, and a contractor was to do the rest under an express contract for an agreed price, it was held that, when the building was destroyed by lightning, so that the contract became impossible of performance, the contractor might recover, on a quantum meruit the fair value of the labor and materials that he had furnished.
In Eastern Expanded Metal Co. v. Webb Granite & Construction Co. 195 Mass. 356 , 362, 363, the principle was applied to a different state of facts, and the plaintiff was allowed to recover the price of labor and materials which had been furnished and used upon a contract which was void for illegality, and which was disaffirmed by the plaintiff for the illegality when it was entirely unexecuted in that part which the law forbade.
The court said: "In this Commonwealth, when labor and materials are furnished and used upon real estate under a special contract, and for reasons which are not prejudicial to the plaintiff the contract becomes of no effect, it is held that the party furnishing them may recover upon a quantum meruit for their value as a benefit to the real estate."
This case definitely decides that when labor and materials are furnished by a plaintiff under a special contract, and the contract is not binding upon either party, he may recover upon a quantum meruit.
The general principle is the same as is always applied by the courts for the protection of parties who have acted under a mutual mistake of fact 23 We think it plain that, under such circumstances as were shown in the present case, the law implies a contract on the part of the defendant to pay for that which the plaintiff furnished. 24 If the law implies an agreement to pay, how much is to be paid?
The plaintiffs right is to recover upon an implied contract of an owner to pay for labor and materials used upon his property at his request.
The right of recovery depends upon the plaintiff's having furnished property or labor, under circumstances which entitle him to be paid for it, not upon the ultimate benefit to the property of the owner at whose request it was furnished. 28 It follows that the plaintiff is entitled to recover the fair value of his labor and materials. 29 Exceptions sustained 