This appeal concerns a congeries of issues relating to (1) the procedure to be followed in challenging a district court's transfer order, (2) the existence of personal jurisdiction, and (3) the accrual of a cause of action under New York law for wrongful possession of a chattel.
The issues arise on an appeal by SongByrd, Inc., from the October 21, 1998, order of the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York (David R. Homer, Magistrate Judge) rejecting as time-barred a suit brought against the estate of Albert B. Grossman, doing business as Bearsville Records.  SongByrd's suit sought to establish ownership of master recording tapes made by Henry Roeland Byrd, a New Orleans rhythm-and-blues pianist and composer.
On remand, the Louisiana District Court entered a brief order (1) reflecting that the Court had found that it lacked personal jurisdiction over the Estate and (2) sua sponte transferring the action to the District Court for the Northern District of New York. C. Proceedings in the Northern District of New York After the transfer, the parties agreed to adjudication by a magistrate judge, see 28 U.S.C. ยง 636(c) (1994), and the transferred action was assigned to Magistrate Judge Homer. On the Estate's motion for summary judgment, Magistrate Judge Homer ruled that (1) New York law applied because the ground for the transfer was that the Louisiana District Court lacked personal jurisdiction over the Estate, (2) the pertinent limitations period was New York's three-year limitations period for conversion and recovery of chattels, see N.Y. C.P.L.R. 214(3) (McKinney 1990), (3) SongByrd's action accrued no later than August 1986 when Bearsville licensed the master tapes to Rounder, and (4) the suit, filed in 1995, was time-barred.
See Songbyrd, Inc. v. Estate of Albert B. Grossman, 23 F.Supp.2d 219, 221-23 (N.D.N.Y.1998) ("SongByrd II"). Discussion I. The Transfer Order from the Eastern District of Louisiana Although SongByrd has not explicitly challenged the transfer order, its challenge to the Louisiana court's ruling that personal jurisdiction over the Estate was lacking implicates the transfer ruling, which was based solely on lack of personal jurisdiction.
See Magnetic Engineering & Manufacturing Co. v. Dings Manufacturing Co., 178 F.2d 866, 869 (2d Cir.1950) (L. Hand, C.J.). Judge Frank, who dissented in Magnetic Engineering because he would have reviewed the transfer order by mandamus, understood the majority opinion to recognize the possibility that the transferee court of appeals could issue mandamus to direct a retransfer.
The Second Circuit has not ruled on whether a transfer order may be reviewed on appeal from a final judgment without a request in the transferee district court for retransfer.
Upon entry of this Order, the Clerk's Office inadvertently neglected to prepare and enter a judgment, but the absence of a separate judgment document may be waived, see Bankers Trust Co. v. Mallis, 435 U.S. 381, 387-88, 98 S.Ct. 1117, 55 L.Ed.2d 357 (1978), and a party may (but is not required to) appeal from a dispositive order without awaiting entry of judgment, see United States v. Interlink Systems, Inc., 984 F.2d 79, 82 (2d Cir.1993). Just as a notice of appeal from a final judgment brings up for review all reviewable rulings "which produced the judgment," 20 Moore ยง 303.21[c], at 303-47, a dispositive order clearly intended to end a litigation should have a similar effect, see Badger Pharmacal, Inc. v. Colgate-Palmolive Co., 1 F.3d 621, 626 (7th Cir.1993).  4.
Although a transfer order for the convenience of parties or witnesses under section 1404(a) is reviewed for abuse of discretion, see Filmline (Cross-Country) Productions, Inc. v. United Artists Corp., 865 F.2d 513, 520 (2d Cir.1989); 17 Moore ยง 111.63, a ruling on personal jurisdiction is accorded plenary review, see Chaiken v. VV Publishing Corp., 119 F.3d 1018, 1025 (2d Cir.1997); 17 Moore ยง 111.63, and a transfer order entered because of lack of personal jurisdiction over the defendant should therefore receive plenary review.
 Such differences in substantive law  are relevant because in a transferred action the law of the transferor jurisdiction applies, see Van Dusen v. Barrack, 376 U.S. 612, 639, 84 S.Ct. 805, 11 L.Ed.2d 945 (1964), only if the transferor court has personal jurisdiction, see Chaiken, 119 F.3d at 1030; Levy v. Pyramid Co. of Ithaca, 871 F.2d 9, 10 (2d Cir.1989).  Thus, in the pending case, if SongByrd's claim would be time-barred under the law of both Louisiana and New York, it would have no complaint that personal jurisdiction was ruled lacking in Louisiana. In that event, we would not need to review Judge Porteous's jurisdiction ruling.
On the other hand, if Louisiana law accords SongByrd a more generous limitations period than New York, or at least affords it a significantly greater opportunity to demonstrate that its claim is not time-barred, then we would need to determine whether personal jurisdiction in Louisiana was lacking, because the more favorable substantive state law is applicable only if personal jurisdiction exists in Louisiana.  We could pause at this point and discuss fully whether SongByrd's claim survives in Louisiana but encounters a time bar in New York, but the opinion will unfold more coherently if we turn to the issue of personal jurisdiction, noting now only that the Fifth Circuit has already given SongByrd substantial reason to believe that its claim is not time-barred in Louisiana, and that our subsequent discussion, see Part III, infra, will rule that the claim is time-barred in New York. II. Personal Jurisdiction Whether the Estate is subject to long-arm jurisdiction in Louisiana with respect to SongByrd's cause of action depends on whether Grossman would have been subject to such jurisdiction during his lifetime.
Grossman retained possession of the master tapes, without any contact with Byrd or his managers and without any activity in Louisiana. The invitation to Louisiana residents to come to New York to make recordings is far too insubstantial a contact to support personal jurisdiction with respect to a cause of action for wrongful possession of master tapes that the residents later sent to Grossman. Although the suit concerns ownership of a chattel (the master tapes) made in Louisiana by a Louisiana resident, Grossman did not obtain the tapes in Louisiana, or take any action in Louisiana that caused the tapes to be sent to him.
III. Statute of Limitations With the Northern District of New York properly regarded as the forum state after the valid transfer for lack of personal jurisdiction in Louisiana, there can be no doubt that New York's statute of limitations determines whether SongByrd's suit, alleging a wrongful conversion of a chattel in New York, is time-barred.
The Court applied New York's rule that "a cause of action for replevin against the good-faith purchaser of a stolen chattel accrues when the true owner makes demand for return of the chattel and the person in possession of the chattel refuses to return it."
As in Sporn, however, no demand and refusal was needed here since the "character" of Bearsville's possession had changed by its actions in treating the master tapes as its own.