The only serious questions raised by this appeal are attributable to the fact that the fence which between 1910 and 1928 clearly marked the boundary line for which respondent contends, disappeared by a process of disintegration in the years which followed, and, when appellants purchased the property in 1941 by a legal description and with a record title which included the disputed strip, there was no fence and nothing to mark the dividing line between the property of appellants and respondent, or to indicate to the appellants that the respondent was claiming title to the strip in question.
The fact that the respondent had ceased to use the strip in question in such a way that her claim of adverse possession was apparent, did not divest her of the title she had acquired.
 Appellants cite no cases, and we have found none, supporting their contention that, under a recording statute such as Rem. Rev. Stat., §§ 10596-1, 10596-2, a conveyance of the record title to a bona fide purchaser will extinguish a title acquired by adverse possession.
But it is contended by the defendant that he is a purchaser for value from Voteau who appeared from *Page 432 the record to be the owner, and was in possession, without any notice of the prior adverse possession which passed the title to Ridgeway, or of any claim on his part to the premises; and that as against him, the defendant, Ridgeway, cannot assert his title; that to permit him to do so, would be giving to an adverse possession greater force and efficacy than is given to an unrecorded conveyance.
The appellants contend that, under this section of the statute, the full legal and equitable title is vested in them as bona fide purchasers from the record title holder, and that the title acquired by adverse possession is thereby extinguished.
 If Rem. Rev. Stat., § 10577, has the effect claimed for it by the appellants, the only way in which a person who has acquired title by adverse possession could retain it against the purchaser of the record title is to make his possession and use of the property so continuous, so open, and so notorious as to prevent anyone from becoming a bona fide purchaser.
The judgment is affirmed 