The same authority says (page 1458): "As a general rule a purchaser will not be compelled to take, or be considered in default for refusing to take, a title resting in parol, or a defective record title which can be cured only by a resort to parol evidence; but it is otherwise, according to the weight of authority, where the title depends upon a question of fact, and it is demonstrated to a reasonable degree of certainty that the evidence cannot be contradicted, and that it will be easily available if needed in the future, unless the contract expressly or impliedly calls for a record title."
The law deduced by the editors of Ruling Case Law from many of the leading cases is thus stated: "A title is not necessarily rendered unmarketable because it is dependent on the proof of a fact not of record, if there is no reasonable doubt as to how the fact is and the proof is readily accessible at any time to show how it is.
In Boylan v. Wilson, 202 Ala. 26, 79 So. 364, it was held that a "good" title is a "marketable" title, and that a misdescription in the chain of the seller's immediate muniments of title, which could be corrected only by litigation, was not a marketable title within the requirement of the contract; and the general rule was approved that a title need not be accepted if it "is the subject of reasonable doubt, or where it is reasonable to anticipate that the purchaser will be exposed to litigation with respect thereto."
In the instant case it appears that the record is fatally defective in not showing such a conveyance of the property from the Elyton Land Company to Charles A. Johnston as can be used in evidence as a muniment of title by a purchaser.
Nor could the defect be cured, nor the original deed proven, by introducing in evidence a "supposed copy" of the original deed, supposed to have been kept by the Elyton Land Company as a record of the sale, the supposed copy being found in the office of the Birmingham Realty Company. The situation, then, is that the purchaser is without any available documentary evidence of a conveyance divesting the title out of the Elyton Land Company; and the seller has not suggested the existence or availability of any parol evidence to establish the existence of a valid deed from that company.
The seller's title must therefore be rested upon an adverse possession under the statute of limitations of 10 years; the evidence before the trial court showing that the seller's grantor, McConnell, erected a building on the lot in 1903, and that since that time McConnell (till 1907) and Schuessler (since 1907) "have been in open, exclusive, adverse possession of the same, claiming as owners thereof, without break in their possession.
On no other foundation could the court have grounded the conclusions invoked by the seller, viz. that his title by adverse possession is not subject to any reasonable doubt; that the evidence supporting it is clear and incontestable, and is and will be for a sufficient length of time accessible to the purchaser and available for use, either in exhibiting a clear and marketable title to future purchasers, or in defending against any possible claimant under a superior paper title.
Affirmed 