Lessee understands that lessor has heretofore executed a lease to Horton & Converse granting to said Horton & Converse the exclusive privilege of conducting a drug store business on the ground floor of said Medico-Dental Building, and lessee agrees that he will not do, or permit to be done, anything in connection with the premises demised hereby which would in any way conflict with or constitute a breach by the lessor therein of said Horton & Converse lease."
On July 8, 1938, a sales tax permit was issued to Dr. Boonshaft. During the last week of July, 1938, defendant learned of these facts as to the operation of the drug store, and on August 3, 1938, it notified plaintiff in writing of its discovery of these matters and charged that such practice constituted a breach of its lease (an express demand being made in the letter that plaintiff take immediate steps to stop the objectionable selling of drugs and the compounding and filling of prescriptions).
Defendant did not have any further communication from plaintiff  concerning the objection to the drug store until August 19, 1938, when the attorney for plaintiff informed defendant that no arrangements could be made with Dr. Boonshaft and plaintiff could not do anything with him; in reply on that occasion defendant, through its president, said that it was going to vacate the premises in order to avoid a waiver of its exclusive right to maintain a drug store and sell drugs in the building.
In line with this chronology the trial court found that plaintiff by executing the lease with Dr. Boonshaft did demise a part of the Medico-Dental Building to a tenant other than defendant for the purpose of maintaining a drug store and selling drugs on the premises, and that the making of the lease with Dr. Boonshaft was a breach of defendant's lease; that plaintiff in not taking immediate action to abate the drug store on the ninth floor of the building violated its lease with defendant; that plaintiff breached its lease with defendant on August 19, 1938, when it advised defendant that it could make no arrangements with Dr. Boonshaft and could not do anything with him regarding the selling of drugs and the maintaining of the drug store; and that such breaches of the lease were in material respects and were not waived by defendant.
The court further found that it was not true that defendant or any person on behalf of defendant, assisted or encouraged Mr. Binder, the business manager of the Boonshaft Medical Group, or anyone to establish or maintain a drug  store, or sell drugs, in any part of the Medico-Dental Building other than the premises demised by plaintiff to defendant; that it was not true that Mr. Walsh, defendant's vice-president, informed Mr. Binder that it would be necessary to obtain a pharmacy license or a sales tax permit, or that he would assist in or outline a procedure for securing such license or permit.
As to the first part of this question, relative to leasing for the forbidden purpose, the trial court found that plaintiff did lease a portion of the Medico-Dental Building to Dr. Boonshaft for the purpose of maintaining a drug store and selling drugs on the premises so demised; that, by executing such lease, plaintiff breached its agreement with defendant; and that, by virtue of one of the provisions of the lease with Dr. Boonshaft, plaintiff intended to and did give such tenant the right and privilege of maintaining a drug store, selling drugs and compounding prescriptions on the premises, and by so doing failed to protect the defendant against competition.
This finding, as to the purpose of plaintiff's demise to Dr. Boonshaft, was based undoubtedly upon inferences drawn from the provisions of that tenant's lease; inferences that plaintiff knew at the time such lease was executed that the Boonshaft Medical Group contemplated the conduct of a type of medical business which would require a large stock of drugs, and that a drug store would be operated in connection therewith; that Dr. Boonshaft regarded the privilege of maintaining a drug store as a material part of the consideration in support of his lease; and inferences drawn from the conduct of plaintiff and Dr. Boonshaft following the latter's entry into possession of the demised premises.
One of the provisions in the lease with Dr. Boonshaft read as follows: "The premises demised hereby are to be used solely as offices for the practice of medicine and dentistry, and  lessee agrees that he will not maintain therein ... a drug store or drug dispensary, nor will lessee compound or dispense ... drugs or ampoules except in connection with the regular course of treatment of lessee's own patients."
 It is of no avail to plaintiff to argue that the premises were not leased to Dr. Boonshaft for the purpose of maintaining a drug store because he agreed not to display any such sign and never did so.
To be noted here is the plaintiff's representation in its lease with Dr. Boonshaft that the defendant's exclusive right to maintain a drug store in the building related only to the ground floor.
The provision in point reads: "Lessee understands that lessor has heretofore executed a lease to Horton & Converse granting to said Horton & Converse the exclusive privilege of conducting a drug store business on the ground floor of said Medico-Dental Building." The attorney who drafted this instrument for plaintiff testified that the exclusive privilege clause in defendant's lease was not shown to Dr. Boonshaft before he executed his lease with plaintiff.
Defendant does not dispute the right of Dr. Boonshaft, as any other doctor in the Medico-Dental Building, to supply his own patients with medicines, but it does object to his distinguishable practice of selling drugs and compounding prescriptions in a pharmacy maintained as a functional part of the professional activities of the Boonshaft Medical Group.  In measuring the breach of a covenant not to let for a specified purpose in cases where the objectionable competition is in connection with a business of a character other than that of the party entitled to protection by the lessor, technical subterfuges will be disregarded and the substance of the situation giving rise to the controversy will determine the issue.
Under analogous reasoning in the present case, the fact that Dr. Boonshaft maintained a drug store in connection with his medical business does not alter its competitive character insofar as the violation of defendant's contractual rights under its lease with plaintiff is involved.
From the evidence that the Medico-Dental Building had been involved in bankruptcy proceedings and there were several vacancies in the building, it would seem more reasonable to infer, as the trial court may well have done, that the plaintiff's conduct in leasing to Dr. Boonshaft was inspired by the desire to be relieved of a vacant floor and to seize the opportunity which presented itself to demise an entire floor at one time to one person, even though such leasing for the purpose required would involve a question as to the violation of the exclusive privilege agreement with defendant.
 As to the second part of the second question--whether the restrictive covenant was breached by the plaintiff's acquiescence in the conduct of Dr. Boonshaft amounting to a violation of the restriction--the trial court found that the plaintiff in not taking immediate action to abate the drug store on the ninth floor and in advising defendant that it could not do anything with Dr. Boonshaft with respect to the objectionable activity, breached its lease with defendant.
From this summarization of the pertinent facts it appears  that defendant did not precipitately vacate the premises upon learning in the latter part of July, 1938, that the competing drug store was being operated, but followed a reasonable and deliberate course of action designed to afford plaintiff an opportunity to adjust the controversy in a manner consistent with the rights and obligations of the parties.
Continuing on the same subject, it further appears from the record that following a general discussion as to the competing features of the objectionable pharmacy and Dr. Boonshaft's assertion of his right to maintain it upon the floor leased for the use of his medical organization, Mr. Wilder addressed the following words to the doctor: "You most certainly are violating the terms of the lease, as Horton & Converse have the exclusive privilege of selling drugs and medicines in the building."
From such definite, emphatic and final answer to its letter of protest of August 3, 1938, defendant was compelled to conclude that a continuation of cooperation with plaintiff in the hope that the dispute could be amicably settled would be useless and would involve a waiver of the breach, and that plaintiff was acquiescing in the violation by Dr. Boonshaft. Plaintiff's change of attitude as to the propriety of Dr. Boonshaft's stand, in view of its previous representation to him as to the limited extent of defendant's exclusive business privilege, demonstrates that plaintiff was not willing to  challenge his position under authority of the following restrictive clause in his lease: "Lessee agrees that he will not do, or permit to be done, anything in connection with the premises demised hereby which would in any way conflict with, or constitute a breach by the lessor therein of said Horton & Converse lease."
Another factor substantiating this view is the record's disclosure that the Horton & Converse lease here involved would not have been executed had it not been for the insertion of the restrictive covenant in accordance with the request of Mr. Horton, defendant's president, that plaintiff's assignor incorporate in the instrument the same rights as to freedom from competition that defendant enjoyed under its previous lease of the same quarters in the Medico-Dental Building. Thus, it is apparent that the exclusive right to engage in a specified business in a particular building was the essence of the consideration for defendant's payment of rent during its many years of occupancy of the premises.
In the case of Hiatt Investment Co. v. Buehler, 225 Mo.App. 151 , where, as previously noted, the lessor's breach of a restrictive covenant similar to the one here involved did not permit its recovery in an action for rent, the court observed at pp. 163-164: "Defendant herein had a choice of several remedies: (1) He could rescind the lease, in which case he would not have been required to pay any further rent; (2) He could have continued under his lease and at the end of the term sued for loss of the profits suffered by reason of the competition of the Crown Drug Company; (3) He could have treated the violation of the covenant by the plaintiff as putting an end to the contract for purposes of the performance and sued for damages.
In support of this proposition plaintiff refers to the following evidence in its behalf: That Dr. Boonshaft obtained a pharmacy license on  May 10, 1938, and that Mr. Walsh, vice-president of Horton & Converse, not only assisted Dr. Boonshaft in securing the license, but also signed it as a member of the California State Board of Pharmacy; that when Dr. Boonshaft objected to paying the sales tax on his retail purchases of drugs from defendant's store in the building, Mr. Walsh told him that the tax would be charged unless he bought wholesale; that appropriate credit arrangements were made as of June 25, 1938, a few days prior to Dr. Boonshaft's procurement of a retail sales tax permit, and from that date until the time of trial, Dr. Boonshaft purchased all his drugs wholesale from the defendant; that when Mr. Walsh visited the "drug room" on the Boonshaft premises in the latter part of April or the first of May, 1938, it was stocked with medicines and certain pharmaceutical equipment; that although Mr. Walsh was aware of the facts, no notice was given to plaintiff for three months; and that Mr. Horton knew that a drug store "was reputed to be operated on the ninth floor" three or four months prior to August, 1938.
For the foregoing reasons the judgment is affirmed 