The facts as shown by the record are substantially as follows: In 1883 one Stewart owned the real estate now owned by appellant, and in September of that year some young people who were upon that land discovered what afterwards proved to be the entrance to the cavern since known as Marengo Cave, this entrance being approximately 700 feet from the boundary line between the lands now owned by appellant and appellee, and the only entrance to said cave.
This practice continued from 1883, except in some few instances when persons were permitted by the persons claiming to own said cave to enter same without payment of the usual required fee, and during the following years the successive owners of the land upon which the entrance to the cave was located, advertised the existence of said cave through newspapers, magazines, posters, and otherwise, in order to attract visitors thereto; also made improvements within the cave, including the building of concrete walks, and concrete steps where there was a difference in elevation of said cavern, widened and heightened portions of passageways; had available and furnished guides, all in order to make the cave more easily accessible to visitors desiring to view the same; and continuously, during all this time, without asking or obtaining consent from anyone, but claiming a right so to do, held and possessed said subterranean passages constituting said cave, excluding therefrom the "whole world" except such persons as entered after paying admission for the privilege of so doing, or by permission.
A part of said cave at the time of its discovery and exploration extended beneath real estate now owned by appellee, but this fact was not ascertained until the year 1932, when the boundary line between the respective tracts through the cave was established by means of a survey made by a civil engineer pursuant to an order of court entered in this cause.
Appellee and his immediate and remote grantors have been in possession of the land and estate here in question at all times, unless it can be said that the possession of the cave by appellant as shown by the evidence above set out, has met all the requirements of the law relating to the acquisition of land by adverse possession.
All the authorities agree that before the owner of the legal title can be deprived of his land by another's possession, through the operation of the statute of limitation, the possession must have been actual, visible, notorious, exclusive, under claim of ownership and hostile to the owner of the legal title and to the world at large (except only the government) and continuous for the full period prescribed by the statute.
Yet it must also be conceded that during all of the time appellee was in constructive possession, as the only constructive possession known to the law is that which inheres in the legal title and with which the owner of that title is always endowed.
The owner of land who, having notice of the fact that it is occupied by another who is claiming dominion over it, nevertheless stands by during 5. the entire statutory period and makes no effort to eject the claimant or otherwise protect his title, ought not to be permitted, for reasons of public policy, thereafter to maintain an action for the recovery of his land.
"It is essential that the 8. possession of one who claims adversely must be of such an exclusive character that it will operate as an ouster of the owner of the legal title; because, in the absence of ouster the legal title draws to itself the constructive possession of the land.
The facts as set out above show that appellee and his predecessors in title have been in actual and continuous possession of his real estate since the cave was 9-11. discovered in 1883.
It is true that appellant was asserting possession of the "Marengo Cave." There would seem to be quite a difference in making claim to the "Marengo Cave," and making claim to a portion of appellee's land, even though a portion of the cave extended under appellee's land, when this latter fact was unknown to anyone.
The owner of land may be present by himself or his servants on the surface of his possessions no matter how extensive they may be.
We are not persuaded that this case falls within the rule of mistaken boundary as announced in Rennert v. Shirk (1904), 163 Ind. 542, 551, 72 N.E. 546, wherein this court said: "Appellant insists, however, that if one takes and holds possession of real estate under a mistake as to where the true boundary line is, such possession can not ripen into a title.
In this State, when an owner of land, by mistake as to the boundary line of his land, takes actual, visible, and exclusive possession of another's land and holds it as his own continuously for the statutory period of twenty years, he thereby acquires the title as against the real owner.
Appellee and his predecessors in title at all times have been in possession of the land which he is now claiming.
The fact that appellee had knowledge that appellant was claiming to be the owner of the "Marengo Cave," and advertised it to the general public, was no knowledge to him that it was in possession of appellee's land or any part of it.
We are of the opinion that appellant's possession for twenty years or more of that part of "Marengo Cave," underlying appellee's land, was not open, notorious, or exclusive, as required by the law applicable to obtaining title to land by adverse possession.
Judgment affirmed. 