Where, in an action to recover on a contract for services, defended on the ground that there was no consideration for the contract as the plaintiff was already bound under a prior agreement to do the same work for the same period for a lesser salary, the record shows that a question of fact was presented and that the evidence most favorable for the plaintiff would sustain a finding that the first contract was destroyed, canceled or abrogated by the consent of both parties, it was error for the trial justice to set aside a verdict in favor of plaintiff and dismiss the complaint and a reversal of such ruling was proper.
A contract of employment may be set aside or terminated by the parties to it and a new one made or substituted in its place and it is competent to end the"one and make the other at the same time. 3.
A charge, by the trial justice, therefore, to the effect that if the jury find that the old contract was, prior to or at the time of the execution of the new contract, “ cancelled and revoked by the parties by their mutual consent then it is your duty to find that there was a consideration for the making of the contract in suit ” and “ the test, question is whether by word or by act, either prior to or at the time of the signing ” of the new contract “ these parties mutually agreed that the old contract from that instant should be null and void,” is correct and a reinstatement of the verdict was proper.
I told Mr. Bauman that I have an offer from Scheer & Mayer of $110 a week, and I said to him, [ Do you advise me as á friendly matter —■ will you advise me as a friendly matter what to do; you see I have a contract with you, and I should not accept the offer of $110 a week, and I ask you, as a matter of friendship, do you advise me to take it or not.’ At the minute he did not say anything, but the day afterwards he came to me in and he said, ‘ I will give you $100 a week, and I want you to stay with me.’ I said, ' All right, I will accept it; it is very nice of you that you do that, and I appreciate it very much.’ ” The plaintiff says that on the 17th of October when the new contract was signed, he gave his copy of the old contract back to Mr. Bauman, who said: “ You do not want this contract any more because the new one takes its place.” The plaintiff remained in the defendant’s employ until the following December when he was discharged.
The trial justice submitted to the jury the question whether there was a cancellation of the old contract and charged as follows: “ If you find that the $90 contract was prior to or at the time of the execution of the $100 contract cancelled and revoked by the parties by their mutual consent, then it is your duty to find that there was a consideration for the making of the contract in suit, viz., the $100 contract and, in that event, the plaintiff would be entitled to your verdict for such damages as you may find resulted proximately, naturally and necessarily in consequence of the plaintiff’s discharge prior to the termination of the contract period of which I shall speak later on.” Defendant’s counsel thereupon excepted to that portion of the charge in which the court permitted the jury to find that the prior contract may have been canceled simultaneously with the execution of the other agreement.
Again the court said: “ The test question is whether by word or by act, either prior to or at the time of the signing of the $100 contract, these parties mutually agreed that the old contract from that instant should be null and void.” The jury having rendered a verdict for the plaintiff the trial justice set it aside and dismissed’the complaint on the ground that, there was not sufficient evidence that the first contract was canceled to warrant the jury’s findings.
\ Where, however, an existing contract is terminated by consent of both parties and a new one executed in its place and stead, we have a different situation and the ' mutual promises are again a consideration.
Judgments affirmed 