For the balance of the period of this agreement the price of the paper and length of terms for which such price shall apply shall be agreed upon by and between the parties hereto fifteen days prior to the expiration of each period for which the price and length of term thereof have been previously agreed upon, said price in no event to be higher than the contract price for newsprint charged by the Canadian Export Paper Company to the large consumers, the seller to receive the benefit of any differentials in freight rates." 11 Between September, 1919, and December of that year, inclusive, shipments were made and paid for as required by the contract.
The time then arrived when there was to be an agreement upon a new price and upon the term of its duration.
It made demand that during each month of 1920 the defendant deliver 1,000 tons of paper at the contract price for newsprint charged by the Canadian Export Paper Company to the large consumers, the defendant to receive the benefit of any differentials in freight rates.
The price to be agreed upon might be less, but could not be more than " the contract price for newsprint charged by the Canadian Export Paper Company to the large consumers."
Seller and buyer understood that the price to be fixed in December for a term to be agreed upon, would not be more than the price then charged by the Canadian Export Paper Company to the large consumers.
While the term was unknown, the contract was inchoate. 13 The argument is made that there was no need of an agreement as to time unless the price to be paid was lower than the maximum.
The complaint as it comes before us leaves no escape from the conclusion that agreement in respect of time is as essential to a completed contract as agreement in respect of price.
The agreement was not reached, and the defendant is not bound. 16 The question is not here whether the defendant would have failed in the fulfillment of its duty by an arbitrary refusal to reach any agreement as to time after notice from the plaintiff that it might make division of the terms in any way it pleased.
We find no allegation of readiness and offer to proceed on any other basis.