12  In December of 1949 appellant, R. P. Hill, summoned Waxberg, a contractor, to assist him in making preparations for the construction of a building on Hill's lot in the city of Fairbanks. It was decided between the parties that the only method of financing the transaction was to secure a commitment from the F.H.A. From the time of their first meeting, it was the understanding of the parties that if the financing could be arranged through the F.H.A. as contemplated, Waxberg would be awarded the building contract.
The evidence shows that Waxberg's plans, ideas and efforts were of some value and assistance to Hill in his endeavors. 16 The trial court's instructions to the jury confined the factual issues to the question of whether Waxberg [the plaintiff] was the party on whom blame for the failure to enter into the contemplated construction contract could be placed.
The trial court concluded that the evidence undisputedly established the existence of an agreement between the parties that Waxberg would be awarded the contract. 17 On the question of damages the court gave the following instruction: 18 "If you find in favor of the plaintiff you will return a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for the value of the benefit which the defendant received as a result of the plaintiff's services and expenditures." 19   20 It is the propriety of this instruction, together with the alleged excessiveness of the verdict returned thereunder, which appellant attacks by this appeal.
 25 The distinction is based on sound reason, too, for where a contract is all but articulated, the expectations of the parties are very nearly mutually understood, and the Court has merely to protect those expectations as men in the ordinary course of business affairs would expect them to be protected, whereas in a situation where one has acquired benefits, without fraud and in a non-tortious manner, with expectations so totally lacking in such mutuality that no contract in fact can be implied, the party benefited should not be required to reimburse the other party on the basis of such party's losses and expenditures, but rather on a basis limited to the benefits, which the benefited party has actually acquired.
The instructions should have been drawn so as to avoid a commingling of the theory of damages in "implied in fact" contracts and the theory of damages in "implied in law" contracts, and if, as would appear to have been the intention of the trial court, the instructions were to be based on an "implied in law" contract growing out of the unjust enrichment of Hill, then the instructions should have identified with precision exactly what the limits of the recovery could be.