He applied for a new trial because of the inadequacy of the verdict but his application was denied when the defendants consented that the damages awarded to the plaintiff be increased to the sum of $7,500.
The defendants suggest that prior to the 1953 accident the plaintiff had a "chronic back condition," which they relate to the later operation for a ruptured disc, and they refer specifically to a hospital record entry by Dr. Hoffman; but Dr. Hoffman made the entry on November 1, 1953 and explained that he was referring to the plaintiff's condition after the 1953 accident; in his own language: "I didn't say he had a chronic back prior to the accident.
The first point which he urges in support of his appeal is that once the trial court had concluded that the damages awarded by the verdict were inadquate it had no legal power whatever to condition the grant of a new trial upon the defendants' failure to consent to a prescribed increase in the verdict.
The term remittitur is used to describe an order denying the defendant's application for new trial on condition that the plaintiff consent to a specified reduction in the jury's award, whereas the term additur is used to describe an order denying the plaintiff's application for a new trial on condition that the defendant consent to a specified increase in the jury's award.
Compare O'Connor v. Papertsian, 309 N.Y. 465, 131 N.E.2d 883 (1956), where the New York Court of Appeals unanimously sustained an Appellate Division order which denied a new trial upon the defendant's consent to increase the $1,000 awarded by the jury to the sum of $2,500, with Dorsey v. Barba, 38 Cal.2d 350, 240 P.2d 604 (1952), where the Supreme Court of California (with Justice Traynor dissenting) held that although its courts could properly deny new trials upon consents by plaintiffs to reductions, they could not properly do so upon consents by defendants to increases.
not only approved the practice followed below but suggested that the court would also have power "to say that the damages given are too small, but that if the defendant will agree to their being increased to such a sum as may be stated, a new trial shall be refused."
In the later case of Watt v. Watt (1905), A.C. 115 the court took an opposite position and rejected the view that a court could condition a denial of a new trial on the plaintiff's acceptance of a reduced verdict.
In his dissenting opinion in the Dimick case, Justice Stone pointed out that the Seventh Amendment was concerned with substance rather than form and that the Supreme Court had often declined to construe it as perpetuating in changeless form the minutiae of trial practice as it existed in the English courts in 1791; he referred to the many jury procedures unknown to the common law but now well established in federal practice; he considered wholly impersuasive the suggested differentiation between the settled remittitur practice which the majority continued and the additur practice which it rejected; and he concluded with the following remarks (293 U.S., at page 496, 55 S.Ct., at page 305, 79 L.Ed., at page 616) : "Appellate federal courts, although without common law precedent, have not hesitated to resort to the remittitur where, by its use, the necessity of a new trial could justly be avoided.
The trial judge who denies a motion for a new trial, because the plaintiff has consented to reduce, or a defendant has consented to increase, the amount of the recovery, does no more than when, sitting in equity, he withholds relief upon the compliance with a condition, the performance of which will do substantial justice.
It is difficult to see upon what principle the denial of a motion for a new trial, which for centuries has been regarded as so much a matter of discretion that it is not disturbed when its only support may be a bad or inadequate reason, may nevertheless be set aside on appeal when it is supported by a good one: That the defendant has bound himself to pay an increased amount of damages which the court judicially knows is within the limits of a proper verdict."
Heinz v. Delaware, L. & W.R. Co., 90 N.J.L.
Justice Trenchard, speaking for a unanimous court, pointed out that in England the power had been denied in Watt v. Watt, supra (which had in turn overruled Belt v. Lawes, supra), but that in our State it had frequently been invoked "to do substantial justice and save the expense of a new trial" and that it was "in no sense an impairment of the constitutional right of trial by jury."
The jury had returned a verdict of $190. and Judge Dungan thereafter announced that if the defendant would consent to pay the sum of $480. rather than the amount awarded by the jury, he would deny the plaintiff's application for a new trial; the defendant declined and a new trial limited to damages was awarded.
The defendant appealed, contending that the trial court had no authority to set aside a verdict and grant a new trial as to damages alone.
Notwithstanding the absence of any such common  law power (Scott, supra, 112) the Court of Errors and Appeals summarily disposed of the defendant's contention by reference to the provisions of the Practice Act of 1912 and the implementing court rules, which explicitly provided for new trials limited to damages.
The defendant also urged that the additur condition imposed by Judge Dungan was beyond his power; in response, Chancellor Walker, speaking for the entire court, had this to say (90 N.J.L., at page 492): "The power of the court in granting a new trial upon the ground that the damages are excessive, upon terms that a new trial shall be had unless the plaintiff will accept a certain sum named, less than that awarded by a verdict, is too well established to be questioned.
It would seem to follow, by parity of reasoning, that when a new trial is granted because the damages are inadequate, the court may impose like terms, that is, terms to the effect that if the defeated party will pay a certain sum, greater than that awarded by the verdict, the rule will be discharged, subject, doubtless, to the power of an appellate court to vacate any such terms when they appear to be an abuse of discretion.
Thus, Dean Harris in his book on Pleading and Practice and Professor Marsh in his revision of Bradner stated unequivocally that the trial court had power to condition its denial of a new trial upon the plaintiff's consent to accept a reduced amount or upon the defendant's consent to pay an increased amount.
The following summary in 1939 by Dean Harris may be said to have represented the general understanding by the bench and bar:  "In granting a new trial on the ground that the verdict is excessive, the court in its discretion may give the plaintiff the option either of accepting a specified reduced amount of verdict, or being put to a new trial.
Thus they were fully familiar with the trial court's power to withdraw a case from the jury because of the insufficiency of the evidence (Harris, supra, §§ 535, 538), to require that the jury render a special verdict or answer special interrogatories (Harris, supra, § 555), and to grant or deny a total or partial new trial upon terms which might include remittitur or additur (Harris, supra, § 664).
In Esposito v. Lazar, supra, the jury returned a verdict for plaintiff in the sum of $1,200; the trial court found the damages inadequate and ordered a new trial limited to damages unless the defendant consented to increasing the award to $3,500.
On appeal, this court, in an opinion by Justice Ackerson, approvingly cited Gaffney v. Illingsworth, supra, and expressly recognized that a trial court has discretionary power to deny a new trial upon the plaintiff's consent to accept a reduced amount or upon the defendant's consent to pay a larger amount.
In Elvin v. Public Service Coordinated Transport, supra, the Appellate Division summarized the pertinent judicial controls which had been exercised in our old practice and have been continued in our new; in the course of his opinion for the court, Judge McGeehan said: "In New Jersey, the judge in the trial of a negligence action has certain recognized controls over the jury verdict when he deems it inadequate.
Further, the judge, in his discretion, may give the defendant the option of paying a stated increase in the amount of the verdict or of going on to a new trial as to the amount of damages, subject to the power of an appellate court to vacate any such terms when they appear to be an abuse of discretion.
1941)) there is now no question as to the power of our appellate courts to reverse a trial court's refusal to grant a new trial (whether or not conditioned on remittitur or additur) where it is satisfied that there has been "an abuse of discretion" (Esposito v. Lazar, supra; Elvin v. Public Service Coordinated Transport, supra) or, in the more modern terminology, "`a manifest denial of justice.'"
 Reversed, with direction for a new trial on the issue of damages 