This is an appeal by Itek Corporation (Itek) from the grant of summary judgment for the defendants in a breach of contract action brought by Itek against Chicago Aerial Industries, Inc. (CAI) and individuals who collectively represented in the contract negotiations CAI and its controlling stockholders.
Negotiations reached a climax in the fall of 1964 with the conditional acceptance by CAI of an offer by Itek to purchase all of CAI's assets at a total price based upon $12.00 per share of CAI stock plus one-twentieth of a share of Itek. This offer was intended to permit the passing on to CAI stockholders of approximately $13.00 per share in cash.
The CAI acceptance was transmitted by telephone to Itek on January 4, 1965 subject to the following conditions: (1) That Itek obtain the necessary financing; (2) That an informal letter of intent be executed; (3) That the details be worked out, and (4) That formal documents be prepared to the satisfaction of the parties.
Since the letter is of prime importance in this lawsuit, it is set out in full: "ITEK CORPORATION "January 15, 1965 "Chicago Aerial Industries, Inc. 550 West Northwest Highway Barrington, Illinois "Gentlemen: 2 "This is to confirm the terms on which Itek Corporation (Itek) and Chicago Aerial Industries, Inc. (CAI) have agreed, with the approval of their respective Boards of Directors, to work towards a combination of the two companies through the purchase of the assets and assumption of specified liabilities of CAI by Itek, all subject to adoption of a plan of liquidation and approval of such sale by CAI stockholders:"   1.
On February 23, 1965, as noted above, Itek and CAI representatives met and Itek agreed to the three new conditions insisted upon by CAI. Upon the departure of the Itek representatives, the CAI committee met with the representative of Bourns who was told that the CAI-Itek negotiations had reached an impasse and that they were free to go ahead with Bourns. On February 25, 1965 the formal Bourns offer was mailed, and on February 26, 1965 the principal stockholders accepted $1,000,000.00 in earnest money to cover the eventual sale of their CAI stock to Bourns at $16.00 per share.
We have examined the record before us and are of the opinion that there is evidence which, if accepted by the trier of fact, would support the conclusion that on January 15, 1965 both Itek and CAI intended to be bound, the former to purchase and the latter to sell all the assets of CAI. There is also evidence which, if accepted by the trier of fact, would support the conclusion that subsequently, in order to permit its stockholders to accept a higher offer, CAI willfully failed to negotiate in good faith and to make "every reasonable effort" to agree upon a formal contract, as it was required to do.
Hence, it is argued that the action of the principal stockholders, i. e., the subsequent sale of their stock to a third party at a higher price, was a breach of this promise, since, by so doing, the principal stockholders made it impossible for C.A.I. to live up to its agreement with Itek. We think, however, the record contains no support for the contention that the principal stockholders made a promise directly to Itek. Principal reliance is made by Itek upon a telephone call of January 4, 1965, made by Victor C. Milliken of C.A.I. to the president of Itek, recorded in Milliken's contemporaneous memorandum, to the effect that the principal stockholders accepted the offer of $12.00 per share plus 1/20th of an Itek share, and that the C.A.I. Board would recommend acceptance to the other stockholders.
These ratifications were in the following form: 4 "The undersigned, a stockholder of Chicago Aerial Industries, Inc., hereby ratifies and approves the statement by Victor C. Milliken on behalf of the undersigned to Franklin A. Lindsay, President of Itek Corporation, that the undersigned approves and will vote in favor of accepting the offer of Itek Corporation to purchase all of the assets of Chicago Aerial Industries, Inc. and assume its liabilities at a purchase price in cash equal to $12.00 for each share of the outstanding stock of Chicago Aerial Industries, Inc. plus 1/20th of a share of Itek Corporation for each such outstanding share on the reasonably satisfactory performance of the following conditions:   "(a) That Itek arrange its financing within a reasonable time;"   (b) That informal letters of intent be exchanged and that Itek's letter will state that the financing has been arranged;"   (c) That the transaction is subject to working out the details;"   5 (d) That legal documents be prepared to the satisfaction of both parties."
The letter of January 15, 1965 contained the same cash offer measured in terms of a price per C.A.I. share, but the assumption of C.A.I. liabilities by Itek was reduced to only those liabilities shown on C.A.I. 's balance sheet of December 31, 1964.
We hold solely that there is no enforceable agreement between Itek and the C.A.I. principal stockholders 