The case was tried, the jury returned a verdict for the defendant, and the plaintiff appeals, arguing that a juror named Leiter should have been struck for cause.
This acknowledgment might seem to imply — since the plaintiff is not contending that any of those  jurors had to be stricken for cause — that she can't really think that Leiter was biased; for if Leiter was biased and those other three were not, surely the plaintiff would have used a peremptory challenge to get rid of Leiter first.
A plaintiff may have a duty to use a peremptory challenge to remove a juror whom the judge correctly or incorrectly has failed to remove for cause, in which event a plaintiff who fails to use a peremptory challenge for this purpose will have forfeited the right to appeal the denial of the challenge for cause.
Since the use of a peremptory challenge to remove that juror would cure the judge's error, the defendant's failure to use a peremptory challenge to do this might well be thought to make the error a self-inflicted wound, as argued in a concurring opinion in Martinez-Salazar, 528 U.S. at 318-19, 120 S.Ct.
But this is not the case in which to consider whether to take on the Supreme Court's dictum, since the defendant is not arguing that the plaintiff's failure to use a peremptory challenge against Leiter prevents the plaintiff from challenging Leiter's presence on the jury.
The judge permitted the lawyers also to ask questions of the prospective jurors and Thompson's lawyer asked Leiter, "And you said earlier that you were concerned that your position as a business owner may cloud your judgment.
After refusing to strike her for cause (though urged to do so by the plaintiff's lawyer), and releasing the jurors who had not been selected for the jury (the defendant had also exercised its three peremptory challenges, none overlapping with the plaintiff's), the judge asked the eight remaining jurors, that is, the jurors selected to hear the case, whether they would follow his instructions on the law even if they didn't agree with them and whether they would be able to suspend judgment until they had heard all the evidence.
The relevant questions would be whether he could distinguish averages from individuals,  and thus recognize the possibility that a given woman might have greater upper-body strength than a given man, and whether he was so fixated on the average sex difference in upper-body strength that he was not open to the possibility that a woman whose upper-body strength was indeed less than that of the least strong firefighter in the fire department could nevertheless be as good a firefighter, or even a better The question in this case was not whether Leiter's belief that some claims against employers are spurious was true or false (it was, as we have noted, true), but whether this belief would somehow impede her in giving due weight to the evidence and following the judge's instructions.
The last thing Leiter said before the judge refused to strike her for cause was that she couldn't say the "background" she brought to this case wasn't going to "cloud" her judgment.
She did not say that, and so the judge (the defendant, though citing Ricketts, does not argue that the plaintiff's lawyer was at fault in failing to follow up his question whether Leiter's background would cloud her judgment) should have followed up by asking her, as he later asked the jury en masse, whether she would follow his instructions on the law and suspend judgment until she had heard all the evidence.
That juror whom the defendant in that case used a peremptory challenge to excuse after the judge refused to excuse him for cause, when asked "whether, if he were a defendant facing jurors with backgrounds and opinions similar to his own, he thought he would get a fair trial," answered: "I think that's a difficult question.
The judge nevertheless refused to excuse the juror for cause because "he said ... he could follow the instructions, and he said ... `I don't think I know what I would do,' et cetera."
The judge didn't push hard enough to determine whether Leiter could relinquish her prior beliefs for purposes of deciding the case.
A candid and thoughtful person, if one may judge from the transcript, Leiter would probably have made an excellent juror — in another case.
REVERSED AND REMANDED 