This appeal from the denial of that motion raises several thorny issues: whether a discharged lawyer who has a charging lien it believes is in jeopardy by ongoing litigation possesses an interest justifying intervention as of right in that litigation; whether the discharged attorney's interests are adequately represented in the ongoing litigation; and whether the former attorney moved timely to intervene.
The sole issue is whether the Butler law firm — GBJ's former counsel in its action against Sequa — may intervene in the suit to protect its asserted interest in the outcome.
In June of that year a magistrate judge determined that the dismissal was without cause and, pursuant to New York law, see N.Y. Judiciary Law § 475 (McKinney 1983), fixed a charging lien in the amount of $2,934,695. in favor of Butler upon any recovery GBJ had in its action against Sequa.
When the district court rejected the amicus brief in August 1999, a single memorandum, apparently a collaboration between attorney Jones and the Butler law firm, was offered in support of GBJ's position and filed in mid-September.
In a March 31, 1999 order the district court had referred the tax recapture issue to a Special Master, and Butler claims that its subsequent assistance to GBJ on this issue was exhaustive, including: prepping GBJ's counsel on discovery methods and trial techniques in advance of a July 1999 hearing before the Special Master; identifying and arranging for a tax expert to refute Sequa's expert report; purchasing two hearing transcripts for GBJ in the course of the sessions before the Special Master; and drafting GBJ's August 14, 1999 post-hearing memorandum, which was submitted to the Special Master.
Butler was found deficient in three of the requirements: specifically, the district court held its motion was untimely, the law firm had not established it possessed an interest in the action justifying intervention, and even if it had such an interest, that interest was already adequately protected by counsel for GBJ.
We have not had occasion to address whether a discharged attorney's charging lien is a sufficient interest to support intervention as of right into a client's underlying action.
Rule 24(a) Despite the substantial value of the charging lien, and its potential impairment by an adverse judgment, it is not certain whether this lien qualifies as an interest sufficient to justify Butler's intervention as of right into the dispute between GBJ and Sequa.
Corp. v. Winthrop Lawrence Corp., 531 F.2d 76, 77 (2d Cir.1976) (per curiam) (affirming district court's denial of petition to intervene by purchaser of land with lien upon it because purchaser  did not have an interest in original action in which creditor gained the security interest in the land).
New York precedent, which governs attorney's charging liens issued by federal courts in New York, see Itar-Tass Russian News Agency v. Russian Kurier, Inc., 140 F.3d 442, 448-49 (2d Cir.1998), defines a charging lien as giving an "equitable ownership interest in the client's cause of action," rather than providing for a mere "priority of payment" in favor of the attorney, LMWT Realty Corp. v. Davis Agency Inc., 85 N.Y.2d 462, 467-68, 626 N.Y.S.2d 39, 649 N.E.2d 1183 (1995).
C. Client's Control of Litigation Distinct from the question of whether a charging lien falls within the language of Rule 24 are the public policy repercussions that arise when discharged counsel is permitted to intervene as of right in his former client's action to protect an interest in legal fees.
Gilbert v. Johnson, 601 F.2d 761, 767 (5th Cir.1979) (discharged attorney may intervene as of right when he has a lien upon his former client's cause of action); Gaines v. Dixie Carriers, Inc., 434 F.2d 52, 54 (5th Cir.1970) (per curiam) (intervention as of right by former counsel based upon contingent fee contract).
Since we are not presently persuaded by the reasoning of those handful of courts that have dealt with this issue, and the district court's decision is fully justified on other grounds, we decline today to decide whether the financial stake of discharged counsel in its former client's action is the type of interest contemplated by Rule 24(a).
II Adequacy of Representation It was not an abuse of discretion for the trial court to hold that Butler's interests were already adequately protected by GBJ, an existing party to the dispute, and to deny the motion to intervene on that basis.
Butler concedes, as it must, that its interests are aligned with those of GBJ, for its recovery upon the charging lien is predicated upon a favorable result for GBJ on the claims against Sequa.
530, 538 (S.D.N.Y.1974) (denying motion by law firm to intervene in client's action for purposes of asserting work product privilege); see also Daggett v. Comm'n on Govtl.
Further, while we agree in principle that an existing party's proven lack of financial resources to continue litigation may signify inadequate representation, see, e.g., Teague v. Bakker, 931 F.2d 259, 262 (4th Cir.1991), we do not believe the limited financial outlays provided here by Butler necessarily prove GBJ's inability to litigate this case effectively in the future.
Moreover, the district court resolved these competing claims in favor of GBJ, and by finding that GBJ's attorneys would continue to litigate this case diligently, it implicitly further found that counsel has both the requisite resources and ability to do so.
We cannot say that such exercise was an abuse of discretion. III Timeliness The district court also did not abuse its discretion in holding that, even  had the other three requirements of Rule 24(a) been met, Butler's motion should be denied as untimely.
We believe that GBJ's purported solicitation of help from a law firm that it had previously discharged should have alerted Butler to any possible danger that its charging lien might not be adequately represented.
See Catanzano, 103 F.3d at 232-33 (denying intervention after motion was filed 18 months after applicant knew of interest in litigation); see also In re Holocaust Litig., 225 F.3d at 199 (eight month delay before motion to intervene); Pitney Bowes, 25 F.3d at 71 (constructive knowledge of interest 15 months prior to motion to intervene and actual knowledge for eight months); New York, 820 F.2d at 557 (15 month delay after applicant knew or should have known of interest).
The third factor gives us some pause, because assuming Butler's interest is not otherwise adequately represented, the prejudice to the Butler law firm of not allowing it to intervene is appreciable.
Although we affirm the district court's denial of Butler's motion to intervene in its own right, the law firm may still promote GBJ's interests by again working alongside its former client's new counsel.
CONCLUSION Accordingly, for the reasons stated, the order appealed from is affirmed 