The respondent brought an action to partition the real and personal property accumulated during a 21-year period when the parties lived together without being married, but holding themselves out to the public as in fact married.
The trial court allowed the action for partition and held the commencement of the action effected a severance of an existing joint tenancy in the real estate and existing personal property.
The argument is advanced that the cohabitation between the parties should not be a factor in the application of real property principles (point 2), and that the services by the respondent were rendered gratuitously (point 3).
The appellant contends the trial court erred in applying more than the bare rules of real property to the parties.
The plaintiff claimed a common-law marriage existed in 1933; however, the trial court found that both parties knew the defendant did not receive a divorce from his first wife until 1942, a date after the outlawing of common-law marriages in Minnesota. On appeal, this court stated (222 Minn. 171, 23 N.W.2d 583):     "The lower court found that plaintiff knew of defendant's prior marriage at the time the alleged common-law marriage commenced, and an examination of the record discloses ample evidence to support this conclusion.
In the Marvin case itself the woman plaintiff averred in her complaint that she and the man defendant [Lee Marvin] "entered into an oral agreement" that while "the parties lived together they would combine their efforts and earnings and would share equally any and all property accumulated as a result of their efforts whether individual or combined" and further that they agreed to "hold themselves out to the general public as husband and wife" and that "plaintiff would further render her services as a companion, homemaker, housekeeper and cook to * * * defendant."
The defendant had argued that the enforcement of the contract would violate public policy because it was so closely related to the "immoral" relationship of the parties; however, after a review of cases the court noted (18 Cal.3d 669, 134 Cal.Rptr. 821, 557 P.2d 112):     "* * * The decisions instead disclose a narrower and more precise standard: a contract between nonmarital partners is unenforceable only to the extent that it explicitly rests upon the immoral and illicit consideration of meretricious sexual services."
The court also went on to state that the plaintiff's complaint could be amended to state a cause of action founded upon theories of implied contract or equitable relief independent of any express contract, based on the reasonable expectations of the parties.
The court also stated that concepts of "guilt" did not justify an unequal division of property between two "guilty" persons and that although the institution of marriage was one to be fostered the continuation of rules which resulted in inequitable distribution of property accumulated during a nonmarital relationship was neither a just nor an effective way of effecting that policy.
The parties may well expect that property will be divided in accord with the parties' own tacit understanding and that in the absence of such understanding the courts will fairly apportion property accumulated through mutual effort.
) The Marvin case thus stands for the following three principles, which the court itself enunciated as follows (18 Cal.3d 665, 134 Cal.Rptr. 819, 557 P.2d 110):     "We conclude: (1) The provisions of the [divorce statutes] do not govern the distribution of property acquired during a nonmarital relationship; such a relationship remains subject solely to judicial decision.
The trial court allowed the respondent to partition both with respect to the personal and real property accumulated during the relationship and utilized its inherent equitable powers to allot the respective interests of the parties in the property.
The trial court is affirmed in all respects 