 Under these circumstances it is reasonably clear that when the grantors stated that the land was conveyed in consideration of "love and affection" and added that it "is restricted for the use and benefit of the second party" they simply meant to say that the land was conveyed upon condition that it would be used for lodge, fraternal and other purposes for which the non-profit corporation was formed.
Thus, we conclude that the portion of the habendum clause relating to the land use, when construed as a whole and in light of the surrounding circumstances, created a fee subject to a condition subsequent with title to revert to the grantors, their successors or assigns if the land ceases to be used for lodge, fraternal and similar purposes for which the appellant is formed. fn. 2  No formal language is necessary to create a fee simple subject to a condition subsequent as long as the intent of the grantor is clear.
 Be this as it may, the distinction between a covenant which restrains the alienation of a fee simple absolute and a condition which restricts land use and creates a defeasible estate was long recognized at common law and is recognized in this state. fn.
3 Thus, conditions restricting [257 Cal. App. 2d 26] land use have been upheld by the California courts on numerous occasions even though they hamper, and often completely impede, alienation.
That at the time of the commencement of this action title to the parcel of real property situated in the City of Los Banos, County of Merced, State of California, being described as: Lot 20 Block 72 according to the Map of the Town of Los Banos was vested in the Mountain Brow Lodge No. 82, Independent Order of Odd Fellows, subject to the condition that said property is restricted for the use and benefit of the second party only; and in the event the same fails to be used by the [257 Cal. App. 2d 28] second party the same is to revert to the first parties herein, their successors, heirs or assigns."
Respondents to recover their costs on appeal 