Are we justified in declaring that the Legislature of Pennsylvania has, in restricting the right to mine anthracite, exercised this power so arbitrarily as to violate the Fourteenth Amendment? Every restriction upon the use of property imposed in the exercise of the police power deprives the owner of some right theretofore enjoyed, and is, in that sense, an abridgment by the State of rights in property without making compensation.
The State merely prevents the owner from making a use which interferes with paramount rights of the public.
The restriction upon the use of this property can not, of course, be lawfully imposed, unless its purpose is to protect the public.
It is said that one fact for consideration in determining whether the limits of the police power have been exceeded is the extent of the resulting diminution in value; and that here the restriction destroys existing rights of property and contract.
The rule that the State's power to take appropriate measures to guard the safety of all who may be within its jurisdiction may not he bargained away was applied to compel carriers to establish grade crossings at their own expense, despite contracts to the contrary; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R.R. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U.S. 57;  and, likewise, to supersede, by an employers' liability act, the provision of a charter exempting a railroad from liability for death of employees, since the civil liability was deemed a matter of public concern, and not a mere private right.
(c) Any track, roadbed, right of way, pipe, conduct, wire, or other facility, used in the service of the public by any municipal corporation or public service company as defined by the Public Service Company Law. A prohibition of mining which causes subsidence of such structures and facilities is obviously enacted for a public purpose; and it seems, likewise, clear that mere notice of intention to mine would not in this connection secure the public safety.
The conclusion seems to rest upon the assumption that in order to justify such exercise of the police power there must be "an average reciprocity of advantage" as between the owner of the property restricted and the rest of the community; and that here such reciprocity is absent.
But where the police power is exercised, not to confer benefits upon property owners, but to protect the public from detriment and danger, there is, in my opinion, no room for considering reciprocity of advantage.
That reciprocal advantage is given by the act to the coal operators 