She was brought in January of 1913 to the office of the plaintiff's lawyer, at which time she executed a deed of the farm to the plaintiff and also an agreement, which was part and parcel of one transaction, wherein the plaintiff agreed to pay her $200 a year as long as she lived.
The deed was not given to the plaintiff; it was given to the lawyer to hold in escrow for no other purpose that can be imagined except to insure the plaintiff's paying the $200 a year and keeping his agreement.
The plaintiff's lawyer became a witness and testified as to the transaction in his office when the deed and agreement were drawn up: "She also stated in substance, I can't give her exact words, `that she was not well off, financially,' and `that she wanted to be certain of some income during her life; that certain loans had been made by her, and her husband, to members of her own family, which had not turned out well, and that she felt that she could rely upon William J. Hood.' * * * During the conversation, as I say, Mrs. Hood said `that she wanted to be assured of some income during her life,' and it was stated that she had a mortgage on some property in Nebraska for $1,200, which she was going to turn over to William J. Hood, and that she was also going to agree to pay to William J. Hood at any time which he might demand it, an additional sum of $500, and that William J. Hood was going to pay her $200 per year during her lifetime * * *."
With this attitude and fear of poverty Mrs. Hood on January 22, 1913, executed a deed of the farm to William J. Hood, which was not delivered to him or given to him, but was put by his lawyer in the lawyer's safe and kept in escrow for no other purpose or reason that I can see except to bind and hold William to the fulfilment of his agreement executed at the same time.
It recites that "Whereas" a deed of even date has been delivered in escrow to be delivered to William J. Hood upon the death of Florence J. Hood, that "Now, therefore, for and in consideration of the making and delivery in escrow of said deed, and of the covenants and agreements herein expressed, the said party of the first part in consideration thereof and a further sum to be agreed upon by the parties hereto, not to exceed however the sum of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) in addition to the property above transferred, to be paid to him by the said party of the second part, does hereby agree that he will pay or cause to be paid to the said party of the second part during the term of her natural life the sum of Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) per year or more at his option, to be paid quarterly, the said sum to be paid in addition to any income derived by said party of the second part from the use of said farm.
The judgment should be reversed and the complaint dismissed, with costs in all courts 