Because Silvestri failed, before the vehicle was repaired, to give General Motors notice of his claim and an opportunity to inspect the vehicle — which the district court concluded was "the sole piece of evidence in this case" — the court dismissed Silvestri's action, finding dismissal to be the appropriate sanction for the spoliation of evidence in this case.
Notwithstanding the anticipation of litigation against General Motors, neither Moench nor Silvestri took any steps to preserve the vehicle or to notify General Motors of the existence of the vehicle and Silvestri's potential claim.
Silvestri v. General Motors Corp., 210 F.3d 240, 245 (4th Cir.2000).
The district court concluded that Silvestri had breached his duty either to preserve the vehicle or to notify General Motors about its availability and his claim.
The court concluded that Silvestri's failure to discharge this duty caused General Motors to be "highly prejudiced."
After recognizing that the determination of whether the airbag should have deployed could only be determined by a reconstruction of the accident, the court explained that General Motors was denied the opportunity to reconstruct the accident accurately because of its inability to take the necessary crush measurements.
In addition, the court noted that General Motors was prejudiced in its examination of the sensing and diagnostic module which monitored the airbag deployment system because Silvestri's expert challenged the results of the examination.
The court added that not only was Silvestri put on notice that the evidence should have been preserved or General Motors notified, but he also "remained silent until almost three years later when his suit was filed."
Moreover, the vehicle was preserved in its post-accident condition for perhaps two to three months, or more, a period during which Silvestri, his lawyer, and his experts recognized not only that they would be suing General Motors but also that General Motors should be given an opportunity to inspect the vehicle.
Within a couple of weeks of the accident, Silvestri's counsel had a conversation with his experts about the need to preserve the vehicle and have General Motors inspect it.
One of Silvestri's expert witnesses, Erik Carlsson, testified that it was his understanding that his inspection of the vehicle was being conducted in anticipation of filing a lawsuit against General Motors and that he advised Moench that Silvestri had a valid case against General Motors "because the airbag should have deployed."
Moreover, there is no evidence to indicate that Silvestri attempted to buy the damaged vehicle or to request that it be maintained in its post-accident condition until General Motors could inspect it.
It is  readily apparent, therefore, that Silvestri, his attorneys, and his expert witnesses anticipated filing suit against General Motors and were fully aware that the vehicle was material evidence in that litigation.
As the district court correctly pointed out, to allow Silvestri to partake in the benefits provided by Moench — the testimony and expert reports of Carlsson and Godfrey — and at the same time disavow the acts of Moench in failing to preserve the evidence or notify General Motors would be "particularly unjust."
In sum, we agree with the district court that Silvestri failed to preserve material evidence in anticipation of litigation or to notify General Motors of the availability of this evidence, thus breaching his duty not to spoliate evidence.
In this vein, counsel for Silvestri made clear during oral argument that Silvestri was disavowing his experts' demand for proof that the sensing and diagnostic module that General Motors inspected in 1998 was the same one in the vehicle during the accident.
Counsel stated during argument  that Silvestri accepted the fact that the module that General Motors inspected in 1998 was the original one and that it revealed no system defect.
We know that Silvestri's attorney knew that the vehicle was the central piece of evidence in his case against General Motors and that he had been reminded that this piece of evidence should be preserved or that General Motors should be notified.
As it turned out,  the vehicle was not preserved, and neither Silvestri nor his attorneys notified General Motors of Silvestri's claim until almost three years after the accident; by then, the evidence had been destroyed by the repair of the vehicle.
But, as Silvestri acknowledges and General Motors has pointed out, General Motors needed more than one crush measurement to develop a crush model, and in this case the one crush measurement available was unreliable.
But when Silvestri presents vehicle data as his only evidence of a  product defect and that data is incomplete and perhaps inaccurate, the court would have no basis for determining what facts should be taken as established.
Accordingly, the judgment of the district court is AFFIRMED 