Respondent sued petitioner and the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company in the United States court for the western district of Kentucky to prevent interference with the carrying out of a contract between the railroad company and the respondent.
The complaint alleges that the railroad company failed to carry out the contract in that it allowed others to enter upon its property to solicit transportation of baggage and passengers and to park on its property vehicles used for that purpose.
It asserts that the contract is contrary to the public policy and laws of Kentucky as declared by its highest court, and that it is monopolistic, in excess of the railroad company's charter power and violates ยง 214 of the constitution of the State.
The record shows that, in September, 1925, respondent was organized in Tennessee by the shareholders of a Kentucky corporation of the same name then carrying on a transfer business at Bowling Green and having a contract with the railroad company like the one here involved; that the business and property of the Kentucky corporation were transferred to respondent, and the former was dissolved.
Respondent's incorporators and railroad representatives, preferring to have this controversy determined  in the courts of the United States, arranged to have respondent organized in Tennessee to succeed to the business of the Kentucky corporation and to enter into this contract in order to create a diversity of citizenship.
The district court found there was no fraud upon its jurisdiction, held the contract valid and found, substantially as alleged in the complaint, that petitioner violated respondent's rights under it.
Co. v. Kelly, 160 U.S. 327, and Miller & Lux v. East Side Canal Co., 211 U.S. 293.
Petitioner maintains that the contract is not enforceable because in excess of the railroad company's power under its charter, and cites the decision of the Kentucky Court of Appeals in McConnell v. Pedigo, 92 Ky. 465.
The opinion does not hold or suggest that the contract was contrary to any provision of the constitution or statutes of Kentucky or in violation of federal law.
In Louisville Property Co. v. Commonwealth, 146 Ky. 827, it held that, "In the maintenance of a place for hotel or restaurant accommodations, and for pleasure, recreation and rest, such as is afforded by a park, neither the letter nor the spirit of the Constitution or statute is violated, but the railroad company acts in the exercise of certain implied powers which it is not prohibited to exercise."
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky held such contracts invalid in McConnell v. Pedigo, supra, and Palmer Transfer Co. v. Anderson, 131 Ky. 217.
Invalidity of a similar contract was assumed arguendo in Commonwealth v. Louisville Transfer Co., 181 Ky. 305.
And these decisions show that, without its consent, the property of a railroad company may not be used by taxicabmen or others to solicit or carry on their business and that it is beyond the power of the State in the public interest to require the railroad company without compensation to allow its property so to be used.
Rose v. Public Service Commission, 75 W.Va. 1, 5.
The cases cited show that the decisions of the Kentucky Court of Appeals holding such arrangements invalid are contrary to the common law as generally understood and applied.
The decree below should be affirmed unless federal courts are bound by Kentucky decisions which are directly opposed to this Court's determination of the principles of common law properly to be applied in such cases.
The contract gives respondent, subject to termination on short notice, license or privilege to solicit patronage and park its vehicles on railroad property at train time.
The applicable rule sustained by many decisions of this Court is that in determining questions of general law, the federal courts, while inclining to follow the decisions of the courts of the State in which the controversy arises, are free to exercise their own independent judgment.
Carpenter v. Insurance Company, 16 Pet. 495, 511, held that the construction of an insurance policy involves questions of general law.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Baugh, 149 U.S. 368, 370, so held as to the responsibility of a railroad company to its employees for personal injuries.
The lower courts followed the well-established rule and rightly held the contract valid.
Decree affirmed 