Third party defendant Adams contends such service is not valid for the asserted reason that paragraph (f) of Rule 4 is [293 F.Supp. 1166] in conflict with and a limitation on the power to obtain service "in the manner prescribed by the law of the state in which the district court is held" as provided in Rule 4(d) (7).
The portion of the first sentence of Rule 4(f) which expressly provides that service may be made "beyond the territorial limits of that state * * * in which the district court is held * * * when authorized * * * by these rules" can not be ignored.
Rule 4(d) (7), for the reasons we stated at length in Adams Dairy Co., authorized extra territorial service pursuant to the new Missouri longarm statute.
The additional language added by the 1963 Amendment to Rule 4(f) extended the authority of a district court to obtain still additional extraterritorial service not theretofore authorized and provided that "in addition" to the extraterritorial service previously authorized by the first sentence of Rule 4(f), still further federal service was obtainable outside the district in which the district court is held.
The first sentence of Rule 4(f), so far as the Western District of Missouri is concerned, permitted service of federal process in all portions of the State of Missouri outside this judicial district and, by its incorporation by reference of Rule 4(d) (7), also authorized valid service of process in accordance with all existing state procedures, including the new Missouri long-arm statute.
The still additional federal service authorized by the second sentence added by the 1963 Amendment to Rule 4(f) "in addition" to other available state and federal process authorized by the first sentence permits service of process in all territory in the State of Kansas which is "not more than 100 miles from the place in which the action is commenced, or to which it is assigned or transferred for trial."
The 1963 Notes of the Advisory Committee make clear that the additional [293 F.Supp. 1167] service authorized by the 1963 amendment to Rule 4(f) was not intended to restrict or limit the service of either state or federal process authorized by any other portion of Rule 4.
Both those cases upheld the validity of extraterritorial service made of third party complaints under state long-arm statutes free from any notion that Rule 4(f), either before or after the 1963 amendments of that rule, contained any limitation on the service obtained pursuant to state procedures as authorized by Rule 4(d) (7).
For the reasons stated, it is Ordered that defendant Adams' pending motions to dismiss and to quash service of process should be and are hereby denied 