The contract provided for the sale of certain real estate for the sum of $36,000.00, payable as follows:     "$500.00, at the signing, execution and delivery of this contract, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged; $500.00 or more on or before the 25th day of December, 1958, and $2500.00 or more on or before the 15th day of January, 1960, and $2500.00 or more on or before the 15th day of January of each and every year thereafter until the balance of the contract has been fully paid, all without interest and all without relief from valuation and appraisement laws and with attorney fees."
The following is the forfeiture/liquidated damages provision of the land sale contract:     "It is further agreed that if any default shall be made in the payment of said purchase price or any of the covenants and/or conditions herein provided, and if any such default shall continue for 30 days, then, after the lapse of said 30 days' period, all moneys and payments previously paid shall, at the option of the Vendor without notice or demand, be and become forfeited and be taken and retained by the Vendor as liquidated damages and thereupon this contract shall terminate and be of no further force or effect; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed or construed to prevent the Vendor from enforcing specific performance of this agreement in the event of any default on the part of the Vendees in complying, observing and performing any of the conditions, covenants and terms herein contained.
The applicable rule is well established and was stated by the Court of Appeals as follows:     "Where a contract for the sale and purchase of land contains provisions similar to those in the contract in the case at bar, the vendor may waive strict compliance with the provisions of the contract      by accepting overdue or irregular payments, and having so done, equity requires the vendor give specific notice of his intent that he will no longer be indulgent and that he will insist on his right of forfeiture unless the default is paid within a reasonable and specified time."
The authors of American Law Reports have provided an excellent analysis of forfeiture provisions in land contracts:     "As is frequently remarked, there is no single rule for the determination of whether a contractual stipulation is one for liquidated damages or a penalty, each case depending largely upon its own facts and equities, and this apothegm is fully applicable to the decisions involving provisions in land contracts for the forfeiture of payments.
If we apply the specific equitable principle announced above — namely, that the amount paid be considered in relation to the total contract price — we are compelled  to conclude that the $21,000 forfeiture as liquidated damages is inconsistent with generally accepted principles of fairness and equity.
The Court, in effect, views a conditional land contract as a sale with a security interest in the form of legal title reserved by the vendor.
In addition to the Stark case, supra, there is an abundance of case law from other jurisdictions which lends credence to the position that a land sales contract is in essence a mortgage:     "While the legal title remains in the vendor, the vendee in possession acquires an equitable title and the vendor holds the legal title in trust as it were for the vendee.
There is an equitable conversion so that while the heirs of the vendor in case of his death must make conveyance of the legal title, the rights of the vendor under a contract, in case of his death intestate, pass to his representatives rather than to his heirs; the title of the vendee in possession is such that in the event of his death intestate, his interest in the realty descends to his heirs; so that, following the doctrine that equity deems that as done which ought to be done, the vendee in possession for all practical purposes becomes the owner of the property with all the rights of an owner in the operation of it, subject only of course to the terms of the contract; the vendor holds the legal title as security for the performance of the contract, but in effect has a vendor's lien upon the property; the status of the parties is somewhat analogous to that of mortgagor and mortgagee.
Conners v. Winans (1924), 122 Misc. 824, 204 N.Y.S. 142, 145:     "Where one contracts to convey real estate to another upon the payment of the agreed price, retaining the title until payment is fully made, it is not very important, in our opinion, what the security so retained is called, whether a trust, a vendor's lien, an equitable mortgage, an      equitable security, or any other kind of a lien.
In an early case, Button v. Schroyer, 5 Wis. 598, in speaking of the relationship of a vendor and vendee in a land contract, the court said:     "`The relation between the parties is analogous to that of equitable mortgagor and mortgagee.
Harris v. Halverson (1927), 192 Wis. 71, 211 N.W. 295, 297;     "This court has several times said that — `Where a vendor sells land, takes the notes of the vendee for the purchase money, and executes to him a bond for title, the effect of the contract in equity is to create a mortgage in favor of the vendor upon the land to secure the purchase money subject to all the essential incidents of a mortgage.'
Fairbairn v. Pofahl (1920), 144 Ark. 313, 222 S.W. 16, 17;     "`Where a sale of land is evidenced by a contract only, and the purchase price has not been paid, and the vendor retains the legal title, the parties occupy substantially the position of mortgagor and mortgagee.
A 1924 New York case best describes this remedy:     "Out of the nature of the relationship created by a land contract, where the vendee is in possession, there have developed certain equitable remedies, among which is the right of the vendor in a proper case to sell out the interest of the vendee for the purpose of satisfying his lien under the contract, in case of default, and while it seems a misnomer, for convenience this remedy is spoken of as foreclosure, and the action as one to foreclose the contract. 3 Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence (4th Ed.) 3046, § 1262."
The foreclosure of a land sale contract is undeniably comprehended by our Trial Rules. TR. 69(C) IC 1971, 34-5-1-1, deals with the foreclosure of liens upon real estate:     "Unless otherwise ordered by the court, judicial foreclosure of all liens upon real estate shall be conducted under the same rules and the sale procedures applicable to foreclosure of mortgages upon real estate, including without limitation redemption rights, manner and notice of sale, appointment of a receiver, execution of deed to purchaser and without valuation and appraisement.
The statute reads as follows:     "Mortgages executed after July 1, 1957 — Time of issuing execution — Sale — Notices. — In any proceeding for the foreclosure of any mortgage hereafter executed on real estate, no process shall issue for the execution of any such judgment or decree of sale for a period of six  months after the filing of a complaint in any such proceeding: Provided, That such period shall be twelve  months in any such proceeding for the foreclosure of any mortgage executed prior to July 1, 1957.
Generally, in consonance with equity's treatment of a mortgage as essentially a security for the payment of the debt, foreclosure by judicial sale supplanted strict foreclosure as the more equitable mode of effectuating the mutual rights of the mortgagor and mortgagee; and there is at the present time, in the majority of the American states, no strict foreclosure as developed by the English courts — either at law or in equity — by which a mortgagee can be adjudgd absolute owner of the mortgaged property.
In other words, we are holding a conditional land sales contract to be in the nature of a secured transaction, the provisions of which are subject to all proper and just remedies at law and in equity.
Reversed and remanded with instructions 