Bearing this out is the fact that Lutz put down the row of logs and brush, which was over 100 feet in length, to mark the southwestern boundary of his farm; this marker, only roughly approximating the lot lines, extended beyond them into the bed of Gibson Place. The property was, moreover, known in the neighborhood as "Mr. Lutz's gardens", and the one-room dwelling on it as "Charlie's house"; the evidence clearly indicates that people living in the vicinity believed the property to be owned by Lutz. And it is undisputed that for upwards of thirty-five years — until 1947, when plaintiffs became the record owners — no other person ever asserted title to the parcel.
Recognizing that "A claim of title may be made by acts alone, quite as effectively as by the most emphatic assertions" (Barnes v. Light, 116 N.Y. 34, 39), we have often sustained findings based on evidence of actual occupation and improvement of the property in the manner that "owners are accustomed to possess and improve their estates".
Quite obviously, the fact that Lutz alleged in the 1947 easement action — twelve years after title had, according to the referee, vested in him through adverse possession — that one of the plaintiffs was the owner of three of the lots, simply constituted evidence pointing the other way, to be weighed with the other proof by the courts below.
The evidence demonstrates that by far the greater part of the four lots was regularly and continuously used for farming, and, that being so, the fact that a portion of the property was not cleared should not affect the claimant's ability to acquire title by adverse possession: any frugal person, owning and occupying lands similar to those here involved, would have permitted, as Lutz did, some of the trees to stand — while clearing the bulk of the property — in order to provide a source of lumber and other tree products for his usual needs.
The limits of the parcel in suit were indicated in a general way by boundaries natural as well as man-made: the declivity to Leroy  Avenue, the "traveled way", and Gibson Place. Apart from that, however, the evidence discloses that the bulk of each of the four lots was cultivated, and — even putting to one side the fact that the cottage, called "Charlie's house", had been actually occupied and lived in for upwards of thirty years — such substantial use was enough to put the owner on notice that his whole lot was claimed.
In short, there is ample evidence to sustain the finding that William Lutz actually occupied the property in suit for over fifteen years under a claim of title.
[See 304 N.Y. 590. 