The defendant corporation is organized under the laws of Pennsylvania, but is qualified to do business and maintains an office in New York. Plaintiff is an individual residing and doing business in Virginia. The accident in which plaintiff alleges to have been damaged occurred in Lynchburg, Virginia. Plaintiff brought this action in the Federal District Court in New York. Section 11 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 78, carried over into the Judicial Code, ยง 24, 28 U.S.C. ยง 41 (1), confers jurisdiction upon federal district courts of all actions at law between citizens of different states.
The Court does not suggest that the federal district court in New York lacks jurisdiction under this statute or that the venue was improper in this case.
See also Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U.S. 11; Baltimore & O.R. Co. v. Kepner, 314 U.S. 44; Evey v. Mexican C.R. Co., 81 F. 294. Never until today has this Court held, in actions for money damages for violations of common law or statutory rights, that a district court can abdicate its statutory duty to exercise its jurisdiction for the alleged convenience of the defendant to a lawsuit.
 No such discretionary authority to decline to decide a case, however, has, before today, been vested in federal courts in actions for money judgments deriving from statutes or the common law. To engraft the doctrine of forum non conveniens upon the statutes fixing jurisdiction and proper venue in the district courts in such actions, seems to me to be far more than the mere filling in of the interstices of those statutes. It may be that a statute should be passed authorizing the federal district courts to decline to try so-called common law cases according to the convenience of the parties.
But in any event, Congress has not yet said so; and I do not think that this Court should, 150 years after the passage of the Judiciary Act, fill in what it thinks is a deficiency in the deliberate policy which Congress adopted. Whether the doctrine of forum non conveniens is good or bad, I should wait for Congress to adopt it 