This is a damage suit brought by appellant, Producers Lumber & Supply Company, Inc., against appellee, Olney Building Company, wherein appellant sought to recover the sum of $5,000, the alleged value of the house torn down and removed by appellee, and the sum of $3,600, the alleged value of the lot, and exemplary damages in the sum of $5,000.
Appellee answered by general denial and by special plea that it had built the house in question in good faith, in the mistaken belief that it was the owner of the lot; that the improvement enhanced the value of the lot to the extent of $5,000, and that before tearing it down and removing the house, it had sought to make an amicable settlement of the matter with appellant.
The appellant will be referred to herein as Producers and appellee, as Olney. The jury found in answer to Special Issue No. 1, that Olney built the house on Producers' lot acting in good faith, in the mistaken belief that it owned the lot, and that Olney was not negligent in so doing.
I find no fault with the majority opinion in allowing appellant $300, exemplary damages as found by the jury, and $600, found by the jury  as actual damages to the lot caused by the removal of the house.
The Hartungs pleaded that they had a first lien on the improvements and on Mrs. Garcia's lot to the extent of an indebtedness for said improvements, and asked that said lien be impressed upon Salazar's lot unless the court permitted or ordered the improvements moved to Mrs. Garcia's lot; and, in the alternative, that they be subrogated to the claims of Mrs. Garcia. The trial court found that Mrs. Garcia was a good faith improver and rendered judgment permanently enjoining Salazar from harming or damaging the improvements and ordering him to vacate within thirty days, granting Mrs. Garcia and the Hartungs the right to remove the improvements within ninety days with free ingress and egress to Salazar's lot for that purpose.
This Court affirmed the judgment in an able opinion, except that it reformed the judgment by vesting the title and possession of the Salazar lots in him, subject to the rights of Mrs. Garcia and the Hartungs. In its opinion, the Court held that the rights of a good faith improver are not based on any statute but on the principles of equity.
The Court quoted the language used in Murphy v. Benson, supra , wherein it was said: "We prefer to follow the authorities which hold that relief will be granted in equity to a party making improvements in good faith, by mistake, upon the land of another, either in suit of trespass to try title, or in an independent action for the purpose, or in defense of a suit for removing the improvements."
The majority opinion holds that Olney is not entitled to reimbursement for the amount its improvements enhanced the value of Producers' land because it resorted to "self-help," and took the law into its own hands, and demolished the building, causing great destruction of property, and by reason thereof Olney does not come into equity with clean hands, and therefore cannot seek equitable relief.
The Court recognized, in the opinion, the right of an improver in good faith to compensation, even where the owner of the land removed the improvements.
The Court held that McMinn could recover against Bollinger, although the part removed was on Bollinger's own land, and held that the measure of damages was the value of the house before the removal less its value thereafter.
I respectfully dissent 