This suit was instituted by Producers Lumber & Supply Company, Inc., against Olney Building Company, a corporation, seeking to recover damages resulting from the conduct of H. P. Orts, president of defendant, when he caused his construction superintendent and a large crew of men to go upon Lot 8, Block 9, New City Block 12459, Northeast Park, an addition situated in the corporate limits of the City of San Antonio, Bexar County, Texas, owned by plaintiff, and demolish a dwelling constructed thereon by Olney Building Company. The trial was to a jury and, based partly upon the verdict of the jury, the trial court rendered judgment in favor of plaintiff against defendant in the sum of $600.
The issues submitted to the jury and the answers thereto are as follows:     "Question No. 1: Do you find from a preponderance of the evidence that H. P. Orts, as president of Olney Building Company, acted in good faith in erecting the building on the plaintiff's lot?
"Question No. 3: Do you find from a preponderance of the evidence that H. P. Orts, as president of Olney Building Company, acted maliciously in removing the building from the lot in question?
Special Issue No. 3 inquired whether H. P. Orts, as president of appellee acted maliciously in removing the building from Lot No. 8.
Orts called A. L. Burden, secretary-treasurer of appellee, and asked him whether Lot 8 had been sold.
Various offers and counter-offers were made, but no settlement had been reached, when suddenly on April 22, 1958, Orts broke off negotiations and sent his construction superintendent with a large crew of men and heavy equipment to Lot 8, and demolished the dwelling constructed thereon, leaving nothing but a heap of crude building material and debris.
This and other evidence clearly supports the finding of the jury that H. P. Orts, as president of appellee, acted maliciously in removing the building from Lot 8.
The jury found in answer to Special Issue No. 1, that Orts had built the dwelling on Lot 8 in good faith.
The evidence shows that at the time he began the construction of the dwelling there was a deed on record signed by Orts, conveying this lot to appellant.
However, if the evidence may be regarded as sufficient to support the jury's answer to Issue No. 1, appellee cannot prevail upon his plea of improvement in good faith, because of his malicious destruction of the dwelling he had constructed on Lot 8.
When Orts went upon Lot 8 without the knowledge or consent of appellant and demolished the dwelling he had placed thereon, he committed waste and must pay appellant for the value of the dwelling he destroyed, which as stipulated by the parties is the sum of $5,000.
He resorted to self-help and took the law into his own hands, and before a court of equity could determine the rights of the parties he went upon Lot 8, which at the time he well knew belonged to appellant, and demolished the dwelling stipulated to be worth $5,000, thereby causing great destruction of property.
Appellant was not required to pay appellee anything until appellee had  secured a finding in a court of equity that Orts had constructed the dwelling in good faith and not as a result of his own negligence.
Appellant had good reason to believe that such an issue might be decided in its favor, in which event it would owe appellee nothing, and, further, if it lost on this issue, appellant would have to pay only such sum as a jury, or other trier of the facts, might find appellee had enhanced the value of Lot 8 by the construction of the dwelling thereon.
The judgment of the trial court will be amended so as to permit appellant, Producers Lumber & Supply Company, Inc., to recover the sum of $5,000, the stipulated value of the dwelling demolished by Orts, and $300, found by the jury as exemplary damages, in addition to the sum of $600 awarded by the trial court, thus making the total amount of the judgment the sum of $5,900, and as thus amended the judgment will be affirmed.
The cost of this appeal is adjudged against appellee 