In July 1997, Alltel contracted with Georgia Power Company for the purpose of installing fiber optic cable on utility poles owned and maintained by Georgia Power along city streets within Macon.
The purpose of the ordinance is to "... govern the compensation charged by the City in its franchising and licensing of telecommunications providers and in the City's management of the use of the public  right-of-way within the corporate limits and boundaries of the City."
In Count II, it alleged that the Amended Ordinance violated Georgia Code § 34-492 (and related code sections) because it charged more than the maximum permitted by the Department of Transportation under Regulation 672-11-03.
On September 27, 2002, the district court entered an order granting Alltel's motion and concluding that under Georgia Code § 32-4-92(a)(10), Macon's Amended Ordinance was invalid because it is "preempted by state law" and charges a rate that exceeds that charged by the Georgia Department of Transportation (D.O.T.).
Positions of Parties Macon's Position Section 32-4-92(a)(10) and its cross-reference to § 32-6174 are intended to address only technical issues such as installation, construction, maintenance, removal, etc., and do not limit a municipality's right to charge a revenue producing and licensing fee.
However, the statute reads: A municipality may grant permits and establish reasonable regulations for the installation, construction, maintenance, renewal, removal, and relocation of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires,  poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, facilities, or appliances of any utility in, on, along, over, or under any part of its municipal street system and of a county road system lying within its municipal limits.
Obviously, this statute contemplates that utilities may have to acquire franchises pursuant to Georgia Code § 36-34-2(7).
The fees would apply to all roads if the regulations were intended to limit a municipality's power.
In DeKalb County v. Georgia Power Co., 249 Ga. 704, 292 S.E.2d 709 (1982), the court, interpreting § 32-4-42(6), stated: DeKalb County is not entitled to extract from the power company a tax, franchise fee, rental fee, or other charge (however designated) in return for permission to use the county's road rights-of-way outside of municipalities for the erection, maintenance and use of power transmission lines.
Section 36-34-2(7) states that municipalities have the power to "grant franchises to or make contracts with ... electric light or power companies, gas companies, steam-heat companies, telephone and telegraph companies, water companies, and other public utilities for the use and occupancy of the streets of the city...." Although not directly on point, numerous cases have up-held a municipality's right to charge a franchise fee, specifically under this statute.
The Georgia legislature has given a limited grant of regulatory power to Georgia municipalities regarding municipal rights-of-way,  which includes the regulation, through permits, of the installation and maintenance of wires, cables, etc.
Because a municipal ordinance cannot supersede an act of the legislature, see City of Atlanta v. Myers, 240 Ga. 261, 240 S.E.2d 60, 63 (1977), the district court properly enjoined enforcement of the Amended Ordinance.
Because the fees are permit fees, DeKalb County v. Georgia Power Co., 249 Ga. 704, 292 S.E.2d 709 (1982), cited by Macon, would actually support Alltel's position, i.e., that Macon cannot charge any fees at all unless authorized by statute, and the statute places limits on what can be charged.
Alltel cites Camden Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. City of St. Marys, 247 Ga. 687, 279 S.E.2d 200 (1981), in which the court stated: We observe that the tax imposed upon the company is a business or occupation tax because it is measured by a certain category (recurring local service) of gross revenues, and because it is imposed upon the operation of the business rather than comprising a condition  precedent to engaging in the business (a license fee).
Conclusion The district court concluded, which the parties have not disputed, that there is no Georgia case law or legislative history which addresses whether fees of the type charged by Macon are limited by § 32-4-92(a)(10) or other Georgia statutes or regulations.
QUESTION CERTIFIED 