The terms of § 1404 (a) are as follows: "For the convenience of parties and witnesses, in the interest of justice, a district court may transfer any civil action to any other district or division where it might have been brought."
On the face of its words alone, the phrase may refer to any one of these considerations, i. e., venue, amenability to service, or period of limitations, to all of them or to none of them, or to others as well. And to  the extent that these are matters which may or may not be raised at the defendant's election, the English of the phrase surely does not tell whether the defendant's actual or potential waiver or failure to raise such objections is to be taken into account in determining whether a district is one in which the action "might have been brought," or whether the phrase refers only to those districts where the plaintiff "might have brought" the action even over a timely objection on the part of the defendant, that is, where he had "a right" to bring it.
The particular problem in the present case has been a relatively commonplace one in the application of § 1404 (a), and it demonstrates the failure of the words of the section, considered merely as words, to define with precision those places where an action "might have been brought."
The District Court in A agrees that B, not A, is the appropriate place for trial and is disposed to transfer the action there, for in light of the defendant's stipulation there is no way in which the plaintiff can be prejudiced by the lack of venue in B or the impossibility, as an original matter, of serving defendant there.
At least seven District Courts have ruled that, because of the defendant's consent to have the action go forward there, a district is one where the action "might have been brought," even though it is a place where the defendant might either have objected to the venue, or avoided process, or both had the action been brought there originally. At least three District Courts have held or implied to the contrary, that the defendant's consent is not relevant, and that such a district cannot be one where the action "might have been brought.
" Two others have simply denied motions by the defendant on the ground that the transferee court was not one where the action "might have been brought," without discussing whether  in moving for transfer the defendant had consented to go forward in the transferee court, or what the effect of that consent would be. Two District Courts have granted the defendants' motion to transfer, making the matter turn on the presence of a number of defendants and the fact that some of them were suable as of right in the transferee court. Two others have found the amenability of the defendant to service of process in the place to which transfer is proposed to be wholly irrelevant to whether the action "might have been brought" there, and have ordered transfer to such a place on the plaintiff's motion even though the defendant did not consent. It simply cannot be said in the face of this experience that the words of the statute are so compellingly precise, so unambiguous, that § 1404 (a) as a matter of "plain words" does not apply in the present case.
 The Third Circuit has ruled in favor of transfer on the defendant's motion to a place where the defendant might have objected to the venue, Paramount Pictures v. Rodney, 186 F.2d 111 (C. A.
Applying these considerations to a problem under a different statute but relevant to the present one, namely, whether removal from a state court to a federal court might be had upon the motion of the defendant when the federal court was one where the venue would have been subject to objection, had the action originally been brought there, this Court, speaking unanimously through Mr. Justice Van Devanter, discriminatingly reminded that "[i]t therefore cannot be affirmed broadly that this suit could not have been brought...[in the federal court] but only that it could not have been brought and maintained in that court over a seasonable objection by the company to being sued there."
This analysis has striking application to the present problem under § 1404 (a), and it is also relevant here that the Court sanctioned removal in that case to a federal court with no statutory venue, partly because "there could be no purpose in extending to removals the personal privilege accorded to defendants by [the venue statutes]...since removals are had only at the instance of defendants."
The rule that statutory venue rules governing the place of trial do not affect the power of a federal court to entertain an action, or of the plaintiff to bring it, but only afford the defendant a privilege to object to the place chosen, is now enacted as part of the Judicial Code.
A transfer can be made under § 1404 (a) to a place where the action "might have been brought" only when "convenience" and "justice" so dictate, not whenever the defendant so moves.
Moreover, the words may serve to prevent transfer to  courts with a lack of federal power to adjudicate the matter of the dispute which the defendant cannot confer with his consent. In light of the fact that the venue statutes in Title 28, U. S. C., are phrased in terms of where the action "may be brought," or in some cases where it "shall" or "must" be brought, the most obvious limiting significance of the phrase "where it might have been brought" is that it refers to places where, under the venue provisions, the action, "may," "shall," or "must" be brought assuming the existence of federal jurisdiction. In the meaning of federal venue provisions as expounded by this Court, and by Congress in § 1406 (b), these, as has been said, are not only places where, under the applicable provision, no objection to the venue is available to the defendant.
In view of the familiarity of this device of dismissing for forum non conveniens when as of right no other forum was available to plaintiff, upon the defendant's agreement to appear in the more convenient forum, it is almost necessary to suppose, in light of the Reviser's description of § 1404 (a) as "in accordance with the doctrine of forum non conveniens," that transfer under § 1404 (a) may likewise be made where the defendant consents to going forward with the case in the transferee court.
The only consideration of the Court not resting on the "plain meaning" of § 1404 (a) is that it would constitute "gross discrimination" to permit transfer to be made with the defendant's consent and over the plaintiff's objection to a district to which the plaintiff could not similarly obtain transfer over the defendant's objection.
On the other hand, to restrict transfer as the Court does to those very few places where the defendant was originally amenable to process and could have had no objection to the venue is drastically to restrict the number of situations in which § 1404 (a) may serve the interests of justice by relieving the parties from a vexatious forum.
The essence of this case is to give fair scope to the role of § 1404 (a) in our system of venue regulations, that is, a system whereby litigation may be brought in only a limited number of federal districts, which are chosen generally upon the basis of presumed convenience.
It may be urged in answer to this analysis that if transfer is available as a matter of "convenience" and "justice" in every case in which the defendant consents to going forward in the transferee court, § 1404 (a) will entail burdensome preliminary litigation and may, if improperly administered, prove vexatious to plaintiffs.
Against a rare abuse, there will always be available the corrective supervisory power of the Courts of Appeals, and ultimately of this Court 