Approximately eight months after the trial, the Cummings filed a motion in the district court for relief under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b) based on alleged discovery misconduct on GM's part.
The Cummings brought this suit against GM, asserting that Mrs. Cummings sustained such severe injuries as a result of the design of the seat belt and the seat, as well as GM's failure to warn.
GM made its motion first, moving for judgment as a matter of law with regard to all claims, including the alleged defective seat, seat belt, failure to warn, and punitive damages claims.
The Cummings responded to GM's contentions, and then the court directed them to make their motion for judgment as a matter of law.
Counsel for the Cummings stated: Your Honor, I would move for judgment as a matter of law on the foreseeable misuse or the so-called misuse defense.
The Cummings filed a timely appeal, asserting that (1) they were entitled to judgment as a matter of law with regard to liability, and (2) the trial court abused its discretion in its rulings on various discovery motions.
The Cummings argue the tests fall within their prior requests for production and would have demonstrated that it was impossible for Mrs. Cummings to have her seat fully reclined at the time of the accident, as their child would have been injured had the child been in a forward-facing child restraint.
Instead, they waited seven months to file a motion for relief under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b).
The district court, finding the motion both untimely and lacking in support, denied the motion, and the Cummings appeal.
Preserving Appellate Review of Sufficiency of the Evidence The Cummings assert the trial court erred in not granting judgment in their favor, arguing that the "[e]vidence of defect and causation presented at trial entitled [them] to judgment as a matter of law."
GM contends that the Cummings have failed to preserve this issue for appeal, stating (1) the Cummings moved for judgment as a matter of law at the close of evidence only on the defense of product misuse and not on liability generally, and (2) the Cummings failed to renew their motion for judgment as a matter of law after the verdict.
A party challenging the sufficiency of the evidence during a civil trial must make a motion for judgment as a matter of law before the case is submitted to the jury, in accordance with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 50(a).
"If, for any reason, the court does not grant a motion for judgment as a matter of law made at the close of all the evidence, the court is considered to have submitted the action to the jury subject to the court's later deciding the legal questions raised by the motion."
A motion for judgment as a matter of law also alerts the court to a claim of insufficient evidence before the case is submitted to the jury so the court is not faced with such a claim after the fact when the court's ability to address the motion is limited.
On appeal, this court reviews de novo the district court's denial of a motion for judgment as a matter of law, Cadena v. Pacesetter Corp., 224 F.3d 1203, 1208 (10th Cir.2000), applying the same standard as applied in the district court, Q.E.R., 880 F.2d at 1180.
Rule 50(a) requires that a motion for judgment as a matter of law at the close of the evidence "specify the judgment sought and the law and the facts on which the moving party is entitled to the judgment."
The motion must include all issues challenged, as the "failure to move for a directed verdict [now judgment as a matter of law] on a particular issue will bar appellate review of that issue."
When determining whether a particular issue has been raised in a motion for judgment as a matter of law, the court has liberally construed such motions, Aguinaga v. United Food & Commercial Workers Int'l Union, 993 F.2d 1463, 1470 (10th Cir.1993), stating that "[t]echnical precision is not necessary in stating grounds for the motion so long as the trial court is aware of the movant's position," United States v. Fenix & Scisson, Inc., 360 F.2d 260, 266 (10th Cir.1966); see also Anderson, 933 F.2d at 1504.
In this case, the Cummings moved for judgment as a matter of law with regard to the defense of misuse only and requested a jury instruction on this issue.
The Plaintiffs' motion was limited to a motion for judgment as a matter of law on the issue of misuse, and therefore any appeal is so limited.
Co., 175 F.3d 1221, 1246 (10th Cir.1999) (holding such a failure does not bar appellant "from appealing the issue of the sufficiency of the  evidence"); Marshall v. El Paso Natural Gas Co., 874 F.2d 1373, 1385 (10th Cir.1989) (holding "failure to move for judgment notwithstanding the verdict does not bar an appeal"); Hansen v. Vidal, 237 F.2d 453, 454 (10th Cir.1956) (holding motion for judgment as a matter of law not a "condition precedent to appeal from a final judgment").
Thus the Cummings' failure to move for judgment as a matter of law following the adverse jury verdict does not bar their appeal regarding the sufficiency of the evidence to support the misuse defense.
The Supreme Court has repeatedly noted that in the absence of a motion for judgment as a matter of law following an adverse jury verdict "made in the trial court within ten days after reception of a verdict [, Rule 50(b)] forbids the trial judge or an appellate court to enter such a judgment."
As to whether the court should have granted the Cummings judgment as a matter of law with regard to GM's liability generally, because the Cummings' Rule 50(a) motion was limited to the issue of GM's misuse defense, we review the sufficiency of the evidence only for plain error constituting a miscarriage of justice.
We review the district court's denial of the Cummings' motion for judgment as a matter of law as to GM's defense of misuse de novo, although as above noted we are limited to determining whether the Cummings are entitled to a new trial.
A motion for judgment as a matter of law at the close of the evidence may only be granted if "the evidence points but one way and is susceptible to no reasonable inferences which may support the opposing party's position."
Construing the evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to GM, and refraining "from weighing the evidence, passing on the credibility of witnesses, or substituting our judgment for that of the jury," Brown v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 11 F.3d 1559, 1563 (10th Cir.1993), we find there was evidence supporting both parties' positions, and consequently the court did not err in denying the motion for judgment as a matter of law and submitting the issue to the jury.
Discovery Rulings With regard to the Cummings' appeal of the trial court's discovery rulings, we discern three main arguments: (1) GM failed to respond adequately to requests for discovery; (2) GM withheld names and locations of persons responsible for the design and implementation of the seat system; and (3) GM failed timely to produce research, development, and testing, including the failure to provide access to GM's databases.
This standard of review applies equally to the denial of a motion to compel, Motley v. Marathon Oil Co., 71 F.3d 1547, 1550 (10th Cir.1995) (noting a denial of a motion to compel discovery will not be disturbed  absent an abuse of discretion), and the grant of a protective order, Kidd v. Taos Ski Valley, Inc., 88 F.3d 848, 853 (10th Cir.1996) ("The decision of a district court to enter a protective order under Rule 26(c) is reviewed for an abuse of discretion.").
The magistrate ruled the newest version of Rule 26 would govern in this case, including the 2000 amendments, I Aplt.App. at 26 n. 5, and the Cummings did not object to this holding.
C. Rule 60(b) Motion Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b) provides that "[o]n motion and upon such terms as are just, the court may relieve a party or a party's legal representative from a final judgment, order or proceeding for ... fraud ..., misrepresentation, or other misconduct of an adverse party."
The Cummings filed the Rule 60(b) motion within a year of the judgment.
The burden is on the moving party, Wilkin v. Sunbeam Corp., 466 F.2d 714, 717 (10th Cir.1972), and they must show "clear and convincing proof" of fraud, misrepresentation, or misconduct, Anderson v. Dep't of Health & Human Servs., 907 F.2d 936, 952 (10th Cir.1990); Yapp v. Excel Corp., 186 F.3d 1222, 1231 (10th Cir.1999).
The Cummings point to two cases, Anderson v. Cryovac, Inc., 862 F.2d 910, 925-26 (1st Cir.1988), and Rozier v. Ford Motor Co., 573 F.2d 1332, 1339 (5th Cir.1978), to support their argument that GM's conduct constituted "misconduct."
We similarly find lacking the Cummings' argument that GM was required to disclose the video tapes under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26.
AFFIRMED 