In this case we are asked to consider how the Colorado River abstention doctrine applies to a derivative shareholder suit brought in federal court that involves the same factual predicate, most of the same defendants, and fundamentally the same legal issues as a derivative shareholder suit brought by a different plaintiff shareholder in New York state court.
Pursuant to Colorado River, the district court stayed this action in favor of the state proceeding.
On behalf of Sears, the Brewster complaint alleges that certain officers and directors of Sears breached their fiduciary duties under New York state law in connection with Sears' decision to enter the competitive MasterCard market.
The Clark complaint names four defendants not named in the Brewster lawsuit and states three additional causes of action — abuse of control, gross mismanagement, and waste of corporate assets.
On June 23, 2004, the New York court issued its opinion dismissing Brewster on the grounds that the derivative plaintiff failed to make pre-suit demand on Sears' board of directors.
Additionally, the Clark defendants filed a motion in the district court to stay this action pursuant to the doctrine set forth in Colorado River Water Conservation District v. United States, 424 U.S. 800, 96 S.Ct.
Using the Colorado River factors, the district court determined that a stay was warranted in this case because it would promote judicial administration.
These factors are: (1) whether the state has assumed jurisdiction over property; (2) the inconvenience of the federal forum; (3) the desirability of avoiding piecemeal litigation; (4) the order in which jurisdiction was obtained by the concurrent forums; (5) the source of governing law, state or federal; (6) the adequacy of state- court action to protect the federal plaintiff's rights; (7) the relative progress of state and federal proceedings; (8) the presence or absence of concurrent jurisdiction; (9) the availability of removal; and (10) the vexatious or contrived nature of the federal claim.
Parallel Actions Clark contends that the district court abused its discretion by finding that the Brewster and Clark actions are parallel.
After reviewing the two complaints, we agree with the district court that no meaningful distinction can be made between the Clark and Brewster lawsuits.
See Schneider Nat'l Carriers, Inc. v. Carr, 903 F.2d 1154, 1156 (7th Cir.1990) (finding cases parallel where plaintiff named additional defendants in state action).
Their inclusion in the federal proceeding does not alter the case's central issue (the same one presented by the Brewster action), i.e., whether Sears officers and/or directors breached their fiduciary duties to Sears in connection with Sears' entry into the MasterCard market.
The Brewster action will continue in New York regardless of whether the Clark action is stayed in Illinois.
Accordingly, since the state and federal proceedings at issue are parallel and a stay would promote wise judicial administration, we decline to hold that the district court abused its discretion in finding that the exceptional nature of this case justified a stay.
Moreover, a stay is a measured approach that protects the substantial rights of the parties and allows Clark the possibility of continuing this litigation once the Brewster action reaches a conclusion in New York.
Conclusion We AFFIRM the district court's stay order 