The arguments the Court makes to reach what I consider to be its unconstitutional conclusion, however, show why it strikes down this state law.
Every argument implicit in this summary statement of my Brother HARLAN's views has been, in my judgment, satisfactorily answered in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in this case—an outstanding opinion    on constitutional law. 37 Wis.2d 163, 154 N.W.2d 259.
The Maine law was subjected to practically the same challenges that Brother HARLAN and the Court raise against this Wisconsin law.
About that law the Supreme Court of Maine said: "But, although an attachment may, within the broad meaning of the preceding definition, deprive one of property, yet conditional and temporary as it is, and part of the legal remedy and procedure by which the property of a debtor may be taken in satisfaction of the debt, if judgment be recovered, we do not think it is the deprivation of property contemplated by the Constitution. And if it be, it is not a deprivation without `due process of law' for it is a part of a process, which during its proceeding gives notice and opportunity for hearing and judgment of some judicial or other authorized tribunal.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in upholding the constitutionality of its law also cited the following statement of our Court made in Rothschild v. Knight, 184 U.S. 334, 341: "To what actions the remedy of attachment may be given is for the legislature of a State to determine and its courts to decide...." Accord, Huron Holding Corp. v. Lincoln Mine Operating Co., 312 U.S. 183, 193.
  I can only conclude that the Court is today overruling a number of its own decisions and abandoning the legal customs and practices in this country with reference to attachments and garnishments wholly on the ground that the garnishment laws of this kind are based on unwise policies of government which might some time in the future do injury to some individuals.
ADDENDUM. The latest statement by my Brother HARLAN on the power of this Court under the Due Process Clause to hold laws unconstitutional on the ground of the Justices' view of "fundamental fairness" makes it necessary for me to add a few words in order that the differences between us be made absolutely clear.
If the judges, in deciding whether laws are constitutional, are to be left only to the admonitions of their own consciences, why was it that the Founders gave us a written Constitution at all 