Custom, it is said, must have "the force of law"; and "law," as I read the opinion, is used in the Hamiltonian sense.  The Court requires state involvement in the enforcement of a "custom" before that "custom" can be actionable under 42 U. S. C. § 1983.
Section 1983 by its terms protects all "rights" that are "secured by the Constitution and laws" of the United States. There is no more basic "right" than the exemption from discrimination on account of race—an exemption that stems not only from the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment but also from the Thirteenth Amendment and from a myriad of "laws" enacted by Congress. And so far as § 1983 is concerned it is sufficient that the deprivation of that right be "under color" of "any...custom...of any State." The "custom" to be actionable must obviously reflect more than the prejudices of a few; it must reflect the dominant communal sentiment.
Miss. Code Ann. § 4065. (1956) required "the entire executive branch of the government of the State of Mississippi...to prohibit by any lawful, peaceful, and constitutional means, the causing of a mixing or integration of the white and Negro races in public schools, public parks, public waiting rooms, public places of amusement, recreation or assembly in this state, by any branch of the federal government...." Every word and deed of a state officer, agent, or employee that was connected with maintaining segregated schools in Mississippi was deemed to be "the sovereign act...of the sovereign State of Mississippi." Id., § 4065. (Supp. 1968).
The State Insane Hospital was required to keep the two races separate, id., § 6883, as was the South Mississippi Charity Hospital. Id., § 6927.
The meaning of "under color of...custom" in the context of the 1866 Act is therefore relevant to the meaning of that phrase as it is used in § 1983, for, as the Court states, the "under color of" provisions mean the same thing for § 1983 as they do for 18 U. S. C. § 242, the direct descendant of § 2 of the 1866 Act. Ante, at 152 n. 7.
Section 2 of that Act provided criminal sanctions for acts done "under color of any" custom of a State. A Congress that in 1866 was not bent only on "the nullification of racist laws," id., at 429, was not restricting itself strictly to state action; it was out to ban racial discrimination partly as respects private actions, partly under state law in the Hamiltonian sense, and partly under the color of "custom."
Of course, § 2 of the 1866 Act did not cover purely private actions as did § 1 of the Act, and that was the point of our discussion of § 2 in Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co. But the Court does not come to grips with the fact that actions taken "under color of any...custom" were covered by § 2 of the 1866 Act quite apart from  actions taken under "color of any statute, ordinance, [or] regulation"—in other words, quite apart from actions taken under "color of law" in the traditional sense.
If the wrong done to the individual was under "color" of "custom" alone, the ingredients of the cause of action were satisfied. The adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment  expanded the substantive rights covered by § 1 of the 1871 Act vis-à-vis those covered by § 2 of the 1866 Act. But that expanded coverage did not make "state action" a necessary ingredient in all of the remedial provisions of § 1 of the 1871 Act. Neither all of § 1 of the 1871 Act nor all of its successor, § 1983, was intended to be conditioned by the need for "state" complicity.
Moreover, a majority of the Court held in United States v. Guest, 383 U.S. 745, 761, 774, 782 and n. 6, that § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment enables Congress to punish interferences with constitutional rights "whether or not state officers or others acting under the color of state law are implicated."
The reach of § 1983 is constitutional rights, including those under the Fourteenth Amendment; and Congress rightfully was concerned with their full protection, whoever might be the instigator or offender.
It is time we kept up with Congress and construed its laws in the full amplitude needed to rid their enforcement of the lingering tolerance for racial discrimination that we sanction today 