In Schweiso, we decided to follow the case of Cohen v. Ratinoff (1983) 147 Cal. App. 3d 321 [195 Cal. Rptr. 84], which held that where 'the lease provides for assignment or subletting only with the prior consent of the lessor, a lessor may refuse consent only where he has a good faith reasonable objection to the assignment or sublease, even in the absence of a provision prohibiting the unreasonable or arbitrary withholding of consent to an assignment of a commercial lease.'
"Both Schweiso and Cohen recognize that they are themselves departures from the long-established rule in California that such a lease proviso had heretofore meant that the lessor may, indeed, refuse consent arbitrarily and even without a good faith reasonable objection.
The lease does not require that 'consent may not unreasonably be withheld'; the lease does not provide that 'the lessor may refuse consent only where he has a good faith reasonable objection to the assignment.'
The Richard v. Degen & Brody court clearly held that the weight of authority as expressed in 51 Corpus Juris Secundum section 36 was the law of California: '"... where a subletting or assignment of the leased premises without the consent of the lessor is prohibited, he [lessor] may withhold his assent arbitrarily and without regard to the qualifications of the proposed assignee, unless ... the lease provides that consent shall not be arbitrarily or unreasonably withheld, and in granting his assent may impose such conditions as he sees fit."'
See also the reporters' note to the Restatement Second of Property, section 15.2, at page 111, which proposes the very result advanced by appellants: 'The rule adopted in subsection (2) of this section that the landlord may not unreasonably withhold his consent to a transfer by the tenant is contrary to the established common-law rule that if the lease mandates the consent of the landlord to validate a transfer, and the lease does not provide for the landlord to give  consent if the transferee is reasonably suitable, such consent may be withheld arbitrarily by the landlord.'
For those the motives and reasons for exercise of rights fairly contracted for are simply irrelevant: 'This commercial lease expressly provided that it could not be assigned without the landlord's consent; there was no limitation in the lease that such consent should not be unreasonably withheld.
"Thus, the California Legislature has considered the situation of lessors contracting for the right (and then exercising it) of unreasonably withholding consent to an assignment.
I would affirm the judgment 