On June 18, 1959, pursuant to said decision to sell, as set forth in the preceding paragraph, defendant Fidelity, in order to give each and every prospective purchaser a fair and equal chance and in order to secure the highest and best price for the owner, asked for sealed bids." 19 Plaintiff then averred that the Fidelity submitted a written offer to plaintiff and others as per the following letter: 20 "June 18, 1959 21 "Jenkins Towel Service, Inc. 22 "Attention: Mr. James E. Mitchell, Vice President 23 "Dear Mr. Mitchell: 24 "We wish to acknowledge your letter of recent date submitting an offer for the purchase of the group of  properties situate and known as `241-47 North 11th Street, 1030-32 Vine Street, and 1018-22 Vine Street', Philadelphia, Pa. 25 "As you already know, several offers have been submitted for the purchase of these properties which offers are approximately of the same amount and on the same terms and conditions.
The Trustees of course, reserve the right to approve or disapprove of any and all offers, or to withdraw the properties from the market. 27  "In submitting your bid please note on the envelope containing the bid and check `Sealed bid — June 24, 1959' and direct the bid to the undersigned. 28 "If you desire any further information or if we can be of any assistance please do not hesitate to call upon us. 29 Very truly yours, George Butterworth, Jr. Assistant Vice President." 30 Plaintiff further averred that on June 24, 1959, plaintiff submitted a sealed bid for said properties in the sum of $95,600 cash, accompanied by a treasurer's check in the sum of $10,000; that when the bids were opened only plaintiff and Esso Standard Oil Company submitted a bid; that plaintiff and defendant each bid the sum of $95,600, but that the bid of plaintiff was unconditional in all respects and complied fully with all the requirements of the offer as set forth in Fidelity's letter, but the bid of Esso Standard Oil Company was conditional and qualified in that it stipulated that its offer to purchase was subject to approval of its home office in New York and also to the approval of zoning authorities to permit the use of these properties as a gasoline station in an area which was zoned "C" Commercial. 31 On July 3, 1959 plaintiff requested Fidelity to enter into an agreement of sale under and in accordance with the terms set forth in its letter of June 18, but on July 9, 1959 Fidelity refused to do so.
It is clear that plaintiff was the only party which accepted the Fidelity's offer. 39 If, as defendants contend, Fidelity's letter of June 18 was merely an invitation to prospective purchasers who had been negotiating unsuccessfully for several years to submit a higher bid or offer which it could accept or reject in its sole and arbitrary discretion, why did Fidelity ask for "sealed bids" from all interested parties on or before June 24, 1959, and further state "at that time the bids will be opened and an Agreement of Sale tendered[*] to the highest acceptable bidder, provided the offer is in excess of $92,000 cash, free and clear of all brokerage commissions," and then specify in detail the other provisions which were to be incorporated in the agreement of sale?
On its face, and especially in the light of the prior negotiations, the surrounding circumstances and the objects which  the parties apparently had in view, the contention of defendants that this was merely an invitation to bid, which Fidelity could reject in its unfettered discretion, is unreasonable. 40 In an attempt to support Fidelity's construction and position, defendants have overlooked not only the law as to the interpretation of a contract which must be considered in its entirety, but also the most important provision, viz. that after the bids are opened it will tender to the highest acceptable bidder[**] an agreement of sale, the details of which are set forth in Fidelity's letter of June 18. 41 Defendants rely upon the statement in Fidelity's letter that it was acting as fiduciary and was "obligated to recommend the offer which it believed most advantageous to its estate."
So interpreted, we believe the sentence means that Fidelity can withdraw the properties from the market at any time before the opening of the sealed bids, and can approve or disapprove any offer which does not fully comply with all the  conditions set forth by the Fidelity, or which complies but adds unsatisfactory terms. 42 Appellee and the Court below rely upon Hilliard Estate, 383 Pa. 63, 117 A. 2d 728, where a corporate executor accepted a subsequent and higher bid.
As the Court said (page 66): "The circular letter, however, unequivocally stipulated that all offers were subject to the approval of the co-executors...Therefore the circular letter merely constituted an invitation to bid." 43 We are convinced that the letter of Fidelity Trust Company dated June 18, 1959, was an offer of sale of the properties in question by Fidelity, subject to the terms and conditions therein set forth and that the offer was duly and unconditionally accepted by plaintiff alone.
If the defendants are unable to controvert the facts set forth in the amended complaint, the plaintiff should be awarded specific performance of the contract. 44 Decree reversed with a procedendo at the cost of the trust estate of which Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company is trustee or co-trustee 