Applying the usual mode of analysis used in this circuit for determining whether a statute allows assignment of claims, I would conclude that Nancey Silvers, as the original creator  of "The Other Woman," should be allowed to pursue the accrued causes of action that Frank & Bob Films II assigned to her.
And, as the language of section 501(b) is not necessarily determinative in deciding the viability of assignments of accrued rights to sue for copyright infringement, section 501(b) cannot, absent further analysis, dictate the majority's conclusion that no assignment of accrued causes of action without transfer of the underlying copyright is permissible. 2.
Instead, I would hold that Silvers, given her status as the original creator of the contested "work-for-hire," may pursue the accrued claims assigned by Frank & Bob Films, while a complete stranger to the creative process could not.
I turn, therefore, to whether Frank & Bob Films' assignment of the accrued cause of action to Silvers, the original creator of "The Other Woman," should be permitted under 17 U.S.C. ยง 501(b).
Following our approach in the ERISA cases discussed above, the relevant inquiry is whether recognition of the assignment to Silvers is consistent with Congress' overall intent in enacting the 1976 Copyright Act. The basic purpose of copyright is "to promote the creation and publication of free expression."
I see nothing in the assignment of accrued claims of Frank & Bob Films for infringement of a work created by Silvers to Silvers that violates these background principles.
As noted, the majority makes clear that allowing a copyright owner to pursue claims that accrued before he held the copyright, once assigned along with the copyright, is eminently sensible.
I see no reason why allowing assignment to original creators of copyrighted works without the copyright would any more undermine the delicate balance that Congress has struck.
Moreover, as Judge Bea notes, post at 900-01, Congress is perfectly capable of including antiassignment provisions in federal statutory schemes, but declined to so in the 1976 Act. I would hold, therefore, that Frank & Bob Films, for whom Silvers completed her work-for-hire, may assign its accrued causes of action related to that work-for-hire to Silvers. 4.
Reed Manufacturing, the patentee of a screw-thread cutting device invented by Wright and Hubbard, assigned its infringement claims against Crown Die & Tool Company to Nye Tool & Machine Works, a competitor of Crown Die. Crown Die, 261 U.S. at 2526, 43 S.Ct. 254.
I respectfully dissent 