The question presented in this case is whether an assignee of an accrued cause of action for copyright infringement, who has no legal or beneficial interest in the copyright itself, has standing to sue for copyright infringement.
Section 501(b) of the 1976 Act provides, in pertinent part: The legal or beneficial owner of an exclusive right under a copyright is entitled, subject to the requirements of section 411, to institute an action for any infringement of that particular right committed while he or she is the owner of it.
Even though the statute granted standing solely to the "proprietor" of the entire copyright, courts nevertheless allowed assignees of an accrued cause of action for copyright infringement to sue for infringement of their property rights. See Prather v. Neva Paperbacks, Inc., 410 F.2d 698, 700 (5th Cir.1969) (assignee of accrued cause of action had standing to sue for copyright infringement); see also Moran v. London Records, Ltd., 827 F.2d 180, 183 (7th Cir.1987) (noting that courts applying the 1909 Act held that assignees had standing to sue for copyright infringement).
Indeed, in providing for the right of exclusive licensees to sue, the drafters of the 1976 Act stated: The principle of the divisibility of copyright ownership, established by section 201(d), carries with it the need in infringement actions to safeguard the rights of all copyright owners and to avoid a multiplicity of suits.
H.R.Rep. No. 94-1476 at 159, reprinted in 1976 U.S.C.C.A.N. 5659 at 5775 (emphasis added). Far from "suggest[ing] strongly that Congress intended to limit the class of persons who may sue for infringement," op. at 886 (emphasis added), the statement above in italics — and omitted from the Majority Opinion — demonstrates that Congress intended to enlarge the ability to bring suit to the owners of exclusive rights. Read in context with provisions of the 1909 Act (to the extent the acts are not inconsistent), and contrary to the Majority's conclusion, the 1976 Act's Section 501(b) was an enlargement of infringement action rights.
Henceforth, standing was not limited only to the "proprietor" of the original copyright; a legal or beneficial owner of exclusive rights severed by assignment from the original copyright also had standing to sue for infringement.
However, nothing in the 1976 Act eliminated  the rights of copyright owners under Section 101 of the 1909 Act to their remedies, nor the right of property owners to enjoy the property rights granted by the statute, including the assignment and enforcement of accrued causes of action.
See Prather, 410 F.2d at 700 ("`a mere assignment of a copyright does not itself transfer to the assignee any cause of action for infringements that occurred prior to the assignment.
The recognition that the right to an accrued cause of action did not (in the absence of an express contractual assignment  of such rights) automatically follow the assignment of the copyright is necessarily a recognition that the two rights should be capable of being separate assets.
Similar to the 1909 Act, courts have interpreted the 1976 Act to mean that an assignment of a copyright does not automatically carry with it accrued claims unless such claims are specifically named in the contract of assignment.
The recognition under both the 1909 and 1976 Acts that an accrued cause of action for copyright infringement is an asset separate from the copyright or the exclusive uses of the copyright saves 501(b) from some absurd results.
Read as the Majority does, Section 501 of the 1976 Act converts a claim for relief for infringement into a life estate, by providing a cause of action for copyright infringement but only for the person who owned the exclusive right at the time of the infringement.
The following result would obtain: if a copyright owner instituted suit for copyright infringement ("while he was the owner"), and then assigned the copyright after instituting such suit, the assignee of the copyright and the accrued cause of action could not maintain such suit, for the assignee was not the owner when the infringement occurred.
Indeed, courts have recognized that assignees of a copyright may maintain an action instituted by the previous owner during which such previous ownership the infringement claim arose.
See, e.g., ABKCO Music, Inc. v. Harrisongs Music, Ltd., 944 F.2d 971 (2d Cir.1991) (allowing plaintiff to bring suit for copyright infringement that had occurred prior to plaintiff's owning any copyright interest where plaintiff was assigned the right to accrued causes of action); see also 17 U.S.C. § 201(d)(2) (1976) ("[t]he owner of any particular exclusive right is entitled, to the extent of that right, to all the protection and remedies accorded to the copyright owner.").
Here, the assignment of an accrued cause of action for copyright infringement to an assignee is nothing more than "simple assignment of a chose in action."
Accordingly, the Majority's reluctance to "insert common law principles" is unfounded here  and it errs in abrogating the right to assign contract rights. Second, courts have interpreted other federal statutes which expressly confer standing on certain persons also to grant standing to assignees of the rights.
See, e.g., Lerman v. Joyce Int'l, Inc., 10 F.3d 106, 112113 (3d Cir.1993) (RICO statute provides that "any person injured in his business or property" may sue; court held that RICO claims are assignable); see also Misic v. The Building Service Employees Health and Welfare Trust, 789 F.2d 1374, 1377-78 (9th Cir.1986) (per curiam) (ERISA statute, 29 U.S.C. § 1056(d), prohibited the assignment of pension benefits, but did not expressly prohibit the assignment of health and welfare benefits; though the statute, 29 U.S.C. § 1132(a), provides that: "A civil action may be brought by a participant or beneficiary ... to recover benefits due to him under the terms of his plan," (emphasis added), health and welfare claims are assignable).
See 1909 Act, Section 12 (1909) ("no action or proceeding shall be maintained for infringement of copyright in any work until the provisions of this Act with respect to the deposit of copies and registration of such work shall have been complied with"). Accord, 17 U.S.C. § 411(a) (1976) ("[n]o action for infringement of the copyright in any work shall be instituted until registration of the copyright claim has been made in accordance with this title.").
Nor indeed is there a reasoned policy consideration given for prohibiting suit upon an accrued cause of action for infringement. V. In reaching its conclusion, the Majority argues that this circuit should follow the Second Circuit's decision in Eden Toys, Inc. v. Florelee Undergarment Co., Inc., 697 F.2d 27 (2d Cir.1982) to avoid the creation of a circuit split.
To avoid the creation of a circuit split, this circuit should rather follow the rationale of Prather. A. Prather v. Neva Paperbacks, Inc. In Prather v. Neva Paperbacks, Inc., 410 F.2d 698 (1969), the Fifth Circuit squarely held that an assignee of an accrued cause of action is a proper party to bring suit for copyright infringement.
In my view, to interpret Prather as holding that an assignee of an accrued cause of action was required to be an assignee of some rights under the copyright would be a profound misreading of the case.
Id. The Second Circuit affirmed the district court's dismissal of the claim, holding that "[the court] do[es] not believe that the  Copyright Act permits holders of rights under copyrights to choose third parties to bring suits on their behalf."
The Majority contends that the court in Eden Toys "made plain the basic principle, which we also have derived from § 501(b) and its context and history, that only the owner of an exclusive right under the copyright is entitled to sue for infringement."
The court in Eden Toys held that a copyright holder who maintains ownership of the exclusive right to reproduce cannot assign to a third party the bare right to sue should the copyright holder choose not to do so.
C. ABKCO Music, Inc. v. Harrisongs Music, Ltd. Finally, I respectfully disagree with the Majority's reading of the Second Circuit's decision in ABKCO Music, Inc. v. Harrisongs Music, Ltd., 944 F.2d 971 (2d Cir.1990). Far from "reaffirm[ing] the principle of Eden Toys that a party that has no ownership interest has no standing to sue," as the Majority asserts (op. at 889-90), in my view, the decision clearly holds that copyright ownership is not the sine qua non of standing, but that assignees of accrued causes of action may sue for copyright infringement.
In addition, in ABKCO, a more recent decision, the Second Circuit expressly held that ownership of both the copyright and the accrued causes of action is not necessary for the owner of those claims to bring suit.
VI. For the foregoing reasons, I would affirm the district court's denial of Sony's motion to dismiss Silvers' complaint against Sony for the alleged infringement of the copyright of her script, "The Other Woman." I respectfully dissent 