I The real controversy which underlies this litigation  concerns the propriety of condemning private property for conveyance to another private party because the use of it by the new owner promises greater public "benefit" than the old use.
In the record of this case, the Environmental Impact Statement, prepared in connection with the condemnation of the property in question in this case states: "The outcome of an anticipated `no-action' decision by the cities of Detroit and Hamtramck would be that General Motors would look outside the region for a site to fulfill its needs."
 Thus it was to a city with its economic back to the wall that General Motors presented its highly detailed "proposal" for construction of a new plant in a "green field" location in the City of Detroit. In addition to the fact that Detroit had virtually no "green fields", the requirements of the "proposal" were such that it was clear that no existing location would be suitable unless the city acquired the requisite land one way or another and did so within the General Motors declared time schedule.
In July, 1980, the general outlines of the proposal to condemn property to meet General Motors' demands were submitted to the Detroit Common Council, which promptly approved the boundaries of CIP. The city had already begun to purchase property in contemplation of CIP's establishment.
  The long shadow of this public accommodation of a private manufacturing development was adumbrated by a provision in the site criteria document, attached to GM Chairman Murphy's letter, which states: "Taxes "The Cities of Detroit and Hamtramck shall establish a Plant Rehabilitation District pursuant to the terms of Public Act 198 Michigan Acts of 1974, as amended, being MCL 207.551 et seq.
It is easy to underestimate the overwhelming psychological pressure which was brought to bear upon property owners in the affected area, especially the generally elderly, mostly retired and largely Polish-American residents of the neighborhood which has come to be called Poletown. As the new plant site plans were developed and announced, the property condemnation proceedings  under the "quick-take" statute begun and the demolitionist's iron ball razed neighboring commercial properties such as the already abandoned Chrysler Dodge Main plant, a crescendo of supportive applause sustained the city and General Motors and their purpose.
Section 22 of the act reads: "A municipality may take private property under Act No. 149 of the Public Acts of 1911, as amended, being sections 213. to 213. of the Michigan Compiled Laws, for the purpose of transfer to the corporation, and may transfer the property to the corporation for use in an approved project, on terms and conditions it deems appropriate, and the taking, transfer, and use shall be considered necessary for public purposes and  for the benefit of the public."
* * * The sovereign power of taxation is employed in a great many cases where the power of eminent domain might be made more immediately efficient and available, if constitutional principles would suffer it to be resorted to; but each of these powers has its own peculiar and appropriate sphere, and the object which is public for the demands of one is not necessarily of a character to permit the exercise of another."
The issue before the Salem Court was whether townships could use tax revenues to lend credit to a private railroad company for the purpose of building a railway line; that is, is railroad construction a public purpose?
Taxation is for those purposes which properly and legitimately are designated public purposes; but the authority of the state to compel the sale of individual property for the use of enterprises in which the interest of the public is only to be subserved through conveniences supplied by private corporations or individuals, has been too long recognized to be questioned.
Such corporations, unlike General Motors in this case, fall within a firmly established and carefully defined exception to the general prohibition against the use of eminent domain for the specific benefit of private corporations.
The majority also relies on Berman v Parker, 348 US 26, 32; 75 S Ct 98; 99 L Ed 27 (1954), as did the Gregory Marina plurality, where the United States Supreme Court said, "The role of the judiciary in determining whether [the] power [of eminent domain] is being exercised for a public purpose is an extremely narrow one".
That the United States Supreme Court would defer to the decisions of Congress while interpreting the Fifth Amendment or to this Court while interpreting the Fourteenth Amendment on the issue of public use, is no logical support for the proposition that this Court, in construing the Michigan constitution, should defer to the judgment of the Michigan Legislature. In point of fact, this Court has never employed the minimal standard of review in an eminent domain case which is adopted by the majority in this case.
The historic distinction notwithstanding, it is clear that the terms "public use" and "public purpose" have, indeed, been used interchangeably in the inexact language of both eminent domain and taxation cases written by this Court. See, e.g., In re Slum Clearance, 331 Mich 714, 720; 50 NW2d 340 (1951) (eminent domain) ("[T]he public purpose of slum clearance is * * * the one controlling purpose of the condemnation".
 IV EMINENT DOMAIN AND PRIVATE CORPORATIONS As a general rule, when the object of eminent domain is to take land for ultimate conveyance to a private corporation to use as it sees fit, the state constitution will forbid it as a taking for private use.
This Court has never hesitated to permit the use of eminent domain by or for private corporations so long as the land condemned served thereafter as an instrumentality of commerce.
Justice FITZGERALD, in his dissenting opinion, correctly stresses the observation of the In re Slum Clearance Court that in those cases the object of eminent domain was found, and the decision to exercise the power was made, entirely apart from considerations relating to private corporations.
In the case before us the reputed public "benefit" to be gained is inextricably bound to ownership, development and use of the property in question by one, and only one, private corporation, General Motors, and then only in the manner prescribed by the corporation.
The public "benefit" claimed by defendant to result can be achieved only if condemnation is executed upon an area, within a timetable, essentially for a price, and entirely for a purpose determined not by any public entity, but by the board of directors of General Motors. There may never be a clearer case than this of condemning land for a private corporation.
Examination of the cases involving the instrumentality of commerce exception reveal that three common elements appear in those decisions that go far toward explicating and justifying the use of eminent domain for private corporations: 1) public necessity of the extreme sort, 2) continuing accountability to the public, and 3) selection of land according to facts of independent public significance. 1.
 The principle has to do not so much with public benefit, which is to a greater or lesser extent invariably present, as with the indispensability of compelled expropriation of property to the very existence of the enterprise pursued by the private corporation.
Thus, the exercise of eminent domain for private corporations has been limited to those enterprises generating public benefits whose very existence depends on the use of land that can be assembled only by the coordination central government alone is capable of achieving.
Nevertheless, it could hardly be contended that the existence of the automotive industry or the construction of a new General Motors assembly plant requires the use of eminent domain.
Instead, what defendants are really claiming is that eminent domain is required for the existence of a new General Motors assembly plant within the city limits of Detroit in order to comply with the specifications of General Motors. This is an altogether different argument, acceptance of which would vitiate the requirement of "necessity of the extreme sort" and significantly alter the balance between governmental power and private property rights struck by the people and embodied in the taking clause.
A fuller explication of the principle of public accountability was made in Board of Health of Portage Twp v Van Hoesen, 87 Mich 533, 539; 49 NW 894 (1891) (establishment of cemeteries by private corporation is not a public use): "To justify the condemnation of lands for a private corporation, not only must the purpose be one in which the public has an interest, but the state must have a voice in the manner in which the public may avail itself of that use.
The general public must have a right to a certain definite use of the private property, on terms and for charges fixed by law, and the owner of the property must be compelled by law to permit the general public to enjoy it.
And in Detroit International Bridge Co v American Seed Co, 249 Mich 289, 296; 228 NW 791 (1930), the Court upheld a statute empowering private corporations organized to build highway bridges or tunnels to condemn land, but stressed that, although the statute did not expressly prohibit private uses of the land by the corporations, the obligation to preserve the public purpose was implied from acceptance of the right of eminent domain.
Whether or not one subscribes to the fiction that, in the instrumentality of commerce cases, the private corporation is merely a public agent, it is clear that public control of the use of land after transfer to the private entity invests the taking with far greater public attributes than would exist without the control and fortifies the justification for the abridgment of individual property rights in those cases.
By permitting the condemnation in this case, this Court has allowed the use of the public power  of eminent domain without concomitant public accountability. 3.
Choosing the Land: Facts of Independent Public Significance The third element common to our cases has to do with the recognition that when property is condemned for a private corporation, determination of the specific land to be condemned is made without reference to the private interests of the corporation.
V CONCLUSION The condemnation of land for CIP is not consistent with any of the three significant elements present in the instrumentality of commerce cases, which elements together justify, in a principled manner, the use of eminent domain for private corporations.
Consideration of the general prohibition against the taking of private property for private corporations with the principles justifying exception thereto reveals that a more general principle, consonant with prior decisions of this Court and entirely contrary to the holding of the majority here, is contained in the state taking clause: the right to own and occupy land will not be subordinated to private corporate interests unless the use of the land condemned by or for the corporation is invested with public attributes sufficient to fairly deem the corporate activity governmental.
I would hold MCL 125.1622; MSA 5.3520(22) unconstitutional because it authorizes a taking of property for private use both facially and as applied 