The issue in this case is whether the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment requires that prior to the termination of Social Security disability benefit payments the recipient be afforded an opportunity for an evidentiary hearing.
In support of his contention that due process requires a pretermination hearing, Eldridge relied exclusively upon this Court's decision in Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U.S. 254 (1970), which established a right to an "evidentiary hearing" prior to termination of welfare benefits.
The District Court concluded that the administrative procedures pursuant to which the Secretary had terminated Eldridge's benefits abridged his right to procedural    due process.
Reasoning that disability determinations may involve subjective judgments based on conflicting medical and nonmedical evidence, the District Court held that prior to termination of benefits Eldridge had to be afforded an evidentiary hearing of the type required for welfare beneficiaries under Title IV of the Social Security Act.
We there held that 42 U. S. C.  405 (h)  precludes federal-question jurisdiction in an action challenging denial of claimed benefits.
The only avenue for judicial review is 42 U. S. C.   405 (g), which requires exhaustion of the administrative remedies provided under the Act as a jurisdictional prerequisite.
Since the Secretary has not "waived" the finality requirement as he had in Salfi, supra, at 767, he concludes that Eldridge cannot properly invoke   405 (g) as a basis for jurisdiction.
As construed in Salfi,   405 (g) requires only that there be a "final decision" by the Secretary with respect to the claim of entitlement to benefits.
The situation here is not identical to Salfi, for, while the    Secretary had no power to amend the statute alleged to be unconstitutional in that case, he does have authority to determine the timing and content of the procedures challenged here.
Salfi suggested that under   405 (g) the power to determine when finality has occurred ordinarily rests with the Secretary since ultimate responsibility for the integrity of the administrative program is his.
Thus, unlike the situation in Salfi, denying Eldridge's substantive    claim "for other reasons" or upholding it "under other provisions" at the post-termination stage, 422 U. S., at 762, would not answer his constitutional challenge.
We conclude that the denial of Eldridge's request for benefits constitutes a final decision for purposes of   405 (g) jurisdiction over his constitutional claim.
The Secretary does not contend that procedural due process is inapplicable to terminations of Social Security disability benefits.
Rather, the Secretary contends that the existing administrative procedures, detailed below, provide all the process    that is constitutionally due before a recipient can be deprived of that interest.
More precisely, our prior decisions    indicate that identification of the specific dictates of due process generally requires consideration of three distinct factors: First, the private interest that will be affected by the official action; second, the risk of an erroneous deprivation of such interest through the procedures used, and the probable value, if any, of additional or substitute procedural safeguards; and finally, the Government's interest, including the function involved and the fiscal and administrative burdens that the additional or substitute procedural requirement would entail.
  In order to establish initial and continued entitlement to disability benefits a worker must demonstrate that he is unable "to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months...." 42 U. S. C.   423 (d) (1) (A).
Whenever the agency's tentative assessment of the beneficiary's condition differs from his    own assessment, the beneficiary is informed that benefits may be terminated, provided a summary of the evidence upon which the proposed determination to terminate is based, and afforded an opportunity to review the medical reports and other evidence in his case file.
  If the recipient seeks reconsideration by the state agency and the determination is adverse, the SSA reviews the reconsideration determination and notifies the recipient of the decision.
Despite the elaborate character of the administrative procedures provided by the Secretary, the courts    below held them to be constitutionally inadequate, concluding that due process requires an evidentiary hearing prior to termination.
Indeed, it is wholly unrelated to   the worker's income or support from many other sources, such as earnings of other family members, workmen's compensation awards,  tort claims awards, savings, private insurance, public or private pensions, veterans' benefits, food stamps, public assistance, or the "many other important programs, both public and private, which contain provisions for disability payments affecting a substantial portion of the work force...." Richardson v. Belcher, 404 U. S., at 85- 87 (Douglas, J., dissenting).
The Secretary concedes that the delay between    a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge and a decision on the claim is currently between 10 and 11 months.
In order to remain eligible for benefits the disabled worker must demonstrate by means of "medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques," 42 U. S. C.   423 (d) (3), that he is unable "to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment...."   423 (d) (1) (A) (emphasis supplied).
The potential value of an evidentiary hearing, or even oral presentation to the decisionmaker,    is substantially less in this context than in Goldberg.
The most visible burden would be the incremental cost resulting from the increased number of hearings and the expense of providing benefits to ineligible recipients pending decision.
  Financial cost alone is not a controlling weight in determining whether due process requires a particular procedural safeguard prior to some administrative decision.
We conclude that an evidentiary hearing is not required prior to the termination of disability benefits and that the present administrative procedures fully comport with due process.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is Reversed 