If the promise contemplated that Davis & Co. were to pay Morgan $10 per month for that part of the year which had already passed, and as to which there had been a settlement, it was manifestly nudum pactum; for a past transaction, the obligation of which has been fully satisfied, will not sustain a new promise.
The case is something like that of Bush v. Rawlins, 89 Ga. 117, 14 S. E. 886, where the landlord agreed to give [43 S.E.
It was argued that the moral obligation would support the promise here, and undoubtedly there are cases in which such consideration has been held to be sufficient.
The cases holding in conformity with Lord Mansfield's supposed statement, while set out in Hargrove v. Freeman, supra, are not adopted as law, because the court finally held that the principle to be adduced from the general current of authorities is that, for a moral obligation to constitute a sufficient consideration to support an express promise, it must be founded upon an antecedent valuable consideration, though respectable authority can be adduced on the "other side."
In an agreement by one partner to pay the other for extra work (Gray v. Hamil, 82 Ga. 375, 10 S. E. 205, 6 L. R. A.
72); in the promise by a landlord to refund to tenant's money paid by them for worthless fertilizer (Parrott v. Johnson, 61 Ga. 475); and in the agreement by a brother to account to a sister for her interest as an heir at law in land which he had improperly induced the father to convey (Brown v. Latham, 92 Ga. 280, 18 S. E. 421)—the court recognized that there was a moral obligation to support the promise, but in each of the cases there was something very close akin to a legal obligation or to a trust.
In Pittman v. Elder, 76 Ga. 371, it was shown that an agreement to pay a debt barred by the statute of limitations, or discharged in bankruptcy, was not supported by what was formerly called a "moral obligation," but by the antecedent obligation; the new promise to pay amounting simply to a waiver of the statute or of the discharge.
Judgment reversed 