Despite these less than stellar results, Amgen decided to continue with the clinical trial but convert it into an open-label study with all thirty-four patients receiving GDNF. The plaintiffs contend that after GDNF was administered, they experienced marked physical, cognitive, and emotional improvement.
The plaintiffs claim that the drug is effective and that Amgen has exaggerated the safety risks of GDNF. The plaintiffs submitted to the district court an affidavit from the principal investigator of the New York study suggesting that the primates's legions were not a cause for alarm as the primates received larger doses of GDNF than study participants received and because the primates, unlike the study participants, were rapidly withdrawn from GDNF. The affidavit also disagreed with Amgen's placebo effect theory and asserted that the antibodies found in several study participants were not harmful.
On June 24, the plaintiffs moved for a preliminary injunction requiring Amgen to provide the physicians at the University of Kentucky with GDNF and to allow the doctors to administer it to the plaintiffs.
The district court concluded that the plaintiffs had failed to   demonstrate a strong likelihood of success on the merits based on any of their claims.
In Suthers, two Parkinson's disease sufferers who participated in the Amgen study at the New York University site filed suit against Amgen in the Southern District of New York and sought a preliminary injunction requiring Amgen to provide them with GDNF. The plaintiffs in Suthers advanced nearly identical legal claims as this case: breach of contract, promissory estoppel, and breach of fiduciary duty.
The court found that the plaintiffs' breach of contract claim was unlikely to succeed because the plaintiffs could not show any contract between the plaintiffs and Amgen. While their Informed Consent document arguably gave them a right to GDNF, the court concluded that this agreement was between the plaintiffs and New York University rather than the plaintiffs and Amgen, and that the principal investigators did not have the authority to bind Amgen. The court also concluded that the plaintiffs' promissory estoppel argument had little chance of success as Amgen had made no direct promises to the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs assert that the district court erred in denying their motion for a preliminary injunction.
Golden v. Kelsey-Hayes Co., 73 F.3d 648, 653 (6th Cir.1996). To determine whether to grant a preliminary injunction, a district court must consider: "(1) the plaintiffs' likelihood of success on the merits; (2) whether the plaintiff may suffer irreparable harm absent the injunction; (3) whether granting the injunction will cause substantial harm to others; and (4) the impact of an injunction upon the public interest."
Turning first to the plaintiffs' breach of contract claim, the district court concluded that there was no breach of contract by Amgen because no contract ever existed between the plaintiffs and Amgen that required Amgen to continue to provide the plaintiffs with GDNF. The court found that the Informed Consent Document that the plaintiffs rely upon as evidence of a contract between them and Amgen did not directly bind Amgen because neither Amgen nor any agent of Amgen signed the Informed Consent Document. We find no abuse of discretion in the district court's conclusion on this point.
Thus, the plaintiffs' claim that Amgen is directly contractually obligated to provide the plaintiffs with GDNF is unlikely to succeed on the merits because "it is axiomatic that courts cannot bind a non-party to a contract because that party never agreed to the terms set forth therein."
  Moreover, the principal investigators in the University of Kentucky study were not in a position to enter into a binding contract with the plaintiffs on Amgen's behalf, as the district court correctly concluded that the principal investigators were independent contractors rather than Amgen's agents.
The plaintiffs' promissory estoppel argument is premised on their claim that the principal investigators informed them that they would make decisions based upon the patients's best interests and that if GDNF proved to be safe and effective, study participants could continue to receive the medication following termination of the study.
The plaintiffs do not assert that Amgen directly promised to continue to provide them with GDNF. Instead, they assert that the principal investigators promised that the plaintiffs would continue to receive the medication and that subsequently Amgen is bound by those promises.
This theory is untenable, however, because, as discussed above, neither the University of Kentucky nor the principal    investigators were agents of Amgen. There is also no evidence that the University or the principal investigators had the apparent authority to bind Amgen via their promises to the plaintiffs.
The district court held that Amgen had no fiduciary duty to continue to supply the plaintiffs with GDNF. The district court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that the plaintiffs' likelihood of success on this claim is minimal.
Thus, the district court did not abused its discretion in concluding that there is no evidence Amgen has a fiduciary duty to the plaintiffs.
Therefore the district court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that the plaintiffs failed to establish they would suffer irreparable harm absent a preliminary injunction.
As to the third factor of the preliminary injunction test the district court concluded that "on balance, the court would side with the plaintiffs on this prong."
The district court acknowledged that there may be some deterrent concern as to patient participation in clinical trials if the plaintiffs are not provided with compassionate use of GDNF. The district court was quick to point out, however, that granting the plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction could also deter pharmaceutical companies from sponsoring clinical trials as clinical trial sponsors might be required to continue to produce and distribute a drug they believed to be dangerous.
We therefore AFFIRM the district court's ruling 