The Court should invalidate a forum State's decision to apply its own law only when there are no significant contacts between the State and the litigation.
 I At least since Carroll v. Lanza, 349 U.S. 408 (1955), the Court has recognized that both the Due Process and the Full Faith and Credit Clauses are satisfied if the forum has such significant contacts with the litigation that it has a legitimate state interest in applying its own law.
See also Watson v. Employers Liability Assurance Corp., 348 U.S. 66 (1954).  Second, the forum State must have a legitimate interest in the outcome of the litigation before it.
Nonetheless, for a forum State to further its legitimate public policy by applying its own law to a controversy, there must be some connection between the facts giving rise to the litigation and the scope of the State's lawmaking jurisdiction.
The State has a legitimate interest in applying a rule of decision to the litigation only if the facts to which the rule will be applied have created effects within the State, toward which the State's public policy is directed.
In summary, the significance of the contacts between a forum State and the litigation must be assessed in light of  these two important constitutional policies. A contact, or a pattern of contacts, satisfies the Constitution when it protects the litigants from being unfairly surprised if the forum State applies its own law, and when the application of the forum's law reasonably can be understood to further a legitimate public policy of the forum State.
The plurality today insists that Yates only held that a postoccurrence move to the forum State could not "in and of itself" confer power on the forum to apply its own law, but did not establish that such a change of residence was irrelevant.
The forum State has no interest in regulating that conduct of the insurer unrelated to property, persons, or contracts executed within the forum State. See Hoopeston Canning Co. v. Cullen, 318 U.S. 313, 319 (1943).
The plurality recognizes this flaw and attempts to bolster the significance of the local presence of the insurer by combining it with the other factors deemed significant: the presence of the plaintiff and the fact that the deceased worked in the forum State.
The fact that the insured was a nonresident employee in the forum  State provides a significant contact for the furtherance of some local policies.
Neither taken separately nor in the aggregate do the contacts asserted by the plurality today indicate that Minnesota's application of its substantive rule in this case will further any legitimate state interest. The plurality focuses  only on physical contacts vel non, and in doing so pays scant attention to the more fundamental reasons why our precedents require reasonable policy-related contacts in choice-of-law cases.
Therefore, I dissent 