The district court denied the motion in its entirety, finding, in particular, that Appellants had failed to demonstrate the irreparable injury necessary to warrant preliminary injunctive relief.
We affirm the district court as to its denial of a structural injunction, and we have no jurisdiction to review its denial of partial summary judgment; however, because we conclude Appellants have satisfied the requisite showing of irreparable harm for an Establishment Clause violation, we vacate the district court's judgment denying preliminary injunctive relief and remand for the district court to proceed with the remainder of the preliminary injunction determination.
In both actions, Appellants alleged "the Navy has established, promoted, and maintained religious quotas and other discriminatory practices in the Navy Chaplain Corps in violation of the First and Fifth Amendments," In re England, 375 F.3d at 1174, and these practices work to the detriment of nonliturgical Christian chaplains.
of P. & A. in Supp. of Pls.'
at 9. The Navy's actions, in Appellants' words, evidence a "well established practice of allowing Catholic Naval Reserve chaplains, and only Catholic chaplains," to remain on active duty beyond mandatory separation age limits, constituting "religious favoritism" in violation of the Establishment Clause.
The district court first rejected preliminary injunctive relief because Appellants failed to demonstrate any irreparable injury.
In so doing, it repudiated Appellants' argument that violation of the law, including the First Amendment and, specifically, the Establishment Clause, per se constitutes irreparable harm.
Comm.
Appellants offer no reasons to deviate from this principle, so we confine the remainder of our analysis to the district court's denial of the requested preliminary injunction.  "The purpose of a preliminary injunction is merely to preserve the relative positions of the parties until a trial on the merits can be held."
To warrant preliminary injunctive relief, the moving party must show (1) a substantial likelihood of success on the merits, (2) that it would suffer irreparable injury if the injunction were not granted, (3) that an injunction would not substantially injure other interested parties, and (4) that the public interest would be furthered by the injunction.
v. McPherson, 797 F.2d 1062, 1078 (D.C.Cir.1986)) (internal quotation marks omitted), for "the basis of injunctive relief in the federal courts has always been irreparable harm," Sampson v. Murray, 415 U.S. 61, 88, 94 S.Ct.
We review a district court's weighing of the four preliminary injunction factors and its ultimate decision to issue or deny such relief for abuse of discretion, though any legal conclusions upon which the district court relies, including whether Appellants have demonstrated irreparable injury, are reviewed de novo.
These measures ensure that, should the courts eventually conclude the Navy has an unlawful practice of retaining Catholic chaplains past applicable age limits to the detriment of non-liturgical Protestant chaplains, "adequate compensatory or other corrective relief" is available to Appellants, belying their claims of irreparable tangible harm at this point.
B Having failed to assert a tangible injury that constitutes irreparable harm,  Appellants are left to argue that the Navy's alleged violation of the Establishment Clause per se constitutes irreparable harm.
Appellants' argument that they would suffer irreparable harm without a preliminary injunction rests on a statement by a three-Justice plurality in Elrod v. Burns, 427 U.S. 347, 96 S.Ct.
2673 Because Appellants claim Appellees' practice of retaining overage Catholic chaplains constitutes an impermissible denominational preference in violation of the Establishment Clause, they urge us to apply the language of the Elrod plurality on its face and conclude that Appellants have demonstrated irreparable injury — specifically, the harm that flows from the "forbidden message" of marginalization Appellees' actions send to Appellants.
They note several of our sister circuits have employed Elrod to find irreparable harm where moving parties alleged a violation of the Establishment Clause — in other words, the precise context in which we find ourselves.
They also assert the rationale underlying the Elrod plurality's statement was a concern that without preliminary injunctive relief, the First Amendment rights to speech and expression would be "chilled" during the pendency of litigation, a harm that could not be redressed after final judgment.
Appellees maintain Appellants have not identified any constitutionally protected behavior that may be chilled in the absence of a preliminary injunction; accordingly, they claim, the concerns motivating the Elrod plurality are not present here and Appellants' mere allegations, without more, do not support a finding of irreparable injury.
2673. The facts of Elrod, which involved dismissals from government jobs for failure to ascribe to or gain the approval of a political party; the plurality's citation to New York Times, a landmark free expression case; and the footnote stressing the "timeliness of political speech" make evident that the pertinent Elrod language on which Appellants rely is directed toward circumstances concerning freedom of expression.
The number of cases applying Elrod to alleged Establishment Clause violations is comparatively meager, see McCreary Cty., 354 F.3d at 445; Baker v. Adams County/Ohio Valley Sch.
In addition, Appellees accurately note that this court has construed Elrod to require movants to do more than merely allege a violation of freedom of expression in order to satisfy the irreparable injury prong of the preliminary injunction frame-work.
Thus, for example, in National Treasury Employees Union v. United States, 927 F.2d 1253 (D.C.Cir.1991), we refused to find irreparable harm where federal employees sought a preliminary injunction after alleging that ethics laws prohibiting them from making appearances, delivering speeches, and writing articles for compensation violated their First Amendment rights.
at 1254-55 (quoting Wagner v. Taylor, 836 F.2d 566, 577 n. 76 (D.C.Cir.1987) (quoting Elrod, 427 U.S. at 373, 96 S.Ct.
We concluded that because the record did not suggest the plaintiffs would "cease speaking or writing" before the district court resolved their claims, irreparable harm would not follow and preliminary relief could not issue.
of Educ., 331 F.3d 342, 349-50 (2d Cir.2003); see also Hohe v. Casey, 868 F.2d 69, 72-73 (3d Cir.1989) ("[T]he assertion of First Amendment rights does not automatically require a finding of irreparable injury....Rather the plaintiffs must show `a chilling effect on free expression.'"
First, while we have required individuals seeking a preliminary injunction on First Amendment grounds to demonstrate a likelihood that they are engaging or would engage in the protected activity the governmental action is purportedly infringing, we have done so only in the context of free expression, where the relevant constitutional protection is not implicated without some corresponding individual conduct that faces a danger of chilling.
The Elrod plurality noted that the plaintiffs' "First Amendment interests were either threatened or in fact being impaired at the time" they sought preliminary injunctive relief, and that because their injury was "both threatened and occurring" and they showed a probability of success on the merits, a preliminary injunction could follow.
And because of the inchoate, one-way nature of Establishment Clause violations, which inflict an "erosion of religious liberties [that] cannot be deterred by awarding damages to the victims of such erosion," City of St. Charles, 794 F.2d at 275, we are able to conclude that where a movant alleges a violation of the Establishment Clause, this is sufficient, without more, to satisfy the irreparable harm prong for purposes of the preliminary injunction determination.
Second, and more significant, Appellees' proposed approach would foreclose all possibility of preliminary injunctive relief in Establishment Clause cases based on intangible harm, even those involving the most manifest violations of the Establishment Clause.
Under Appellees' theory, however, she could not possibly obtain a preliminary injunction ordering removal of the cross during pendency of the litigation, despite the certainty with which she would ultimately prevail on the merits of her claim and the irreparability of the  harm inflicted upon her in the meantime.
We reject this position and instead hold that a party alleging a violation of the Establishment Clause per se satisfies the irreparable injury requirement of the preliminary injunction calculus. We stress that a finding of irreparable injury is but one of four elements that comprise the preliminary injunction framework.
The mere allegation that the government is violating the Establishment Clause may suffice to satisfy the irreparable harm prong, but a preliminary injunction will not issue unless the moving party also shows, on the same facts, a substantial likelihood of success on the merits, that the injunction would not substantially injure other interested parties, and that the public interest would be furthered by the injunction.
III Having reached a conclusion contrary to the district court with respect to Appellants' irreparable injury, we must decide whether to proceed with the remainder of the preliminary injunction determination, as Appellants urge, or remand the case to the district court, as Appellees insist.
The district court here confined its analysis to determining whether irreparable harm would visit Appellants without interim relief.
in Huntington Comm.
But our review of the district court's balancing of the four preliminary injunction factors and ultimate decision to grant or deny such relief is for abuse of discretion, and without any conclusions of law as to the three remaining factors, we are unable to determine whether the district court properly carried out this function.
IV By alleging that Appellees are engaging in conduct that violates the Establishment Clause, Appellants have satisfied the irreparable injury prong of the preliminary injunction framework.
We affirm the district court's denial of structural injunctive relief, and we have no jurisdiction to rule on its denial of partial summary judgment 