  It is now settled that a federal court must give to a state-court judgment the same preclusive effect as would be given that judgment under the law of the State in which the judgment was rendered.
In Allen v. McCurry, 449 U.S. 90 (1980), this Court said: "Indeed, though the federal courts may look to the common law or to the policies supporting res judicata and collateral estoppel in assessing the preclusive effect of decisions of other federal courts, Congress has specifically required all federal courts to give preclusive effect to state-court judgments whenever the courts of the State from which the judgments emerged would do so.
Accordingly, in the absence of federal law modifying the operation of   1738, the preclusive effect in federal court of petitioner's state-court judgment is determined by Ohio law.
In Allen, the Court considered whether 42 U. S. C.  1983 modified the operation of   1738 so that a state- court judgment was to receive less than normal preclusive effect in a suit brought in federal court under  1983.
That court concluded that, because a   1983 suit was the respondent's only route to a federal forum for his constitutional claim,  and because one of   1983's underlying purposes was to provide a federal cause of action in situations where state courts were not adequately protecting individual rights, the respondent should be allowed to proceed to trial in federal court unencumbered by collateral estoppel.
This Court, however, reversed the Court of Appeals, explaining: "[N]othing in the language of   1983 remotely expresses any congressional intent to contravene the common-law rules of preclusion or to repeal the express statutory requirements of the predecessor of 28 U. S. C.   1738....
  Allen therefore made clear that issues actually litigated in a state-court proceeding are entitled to the same preclusive effect in a subsequent federal   1983 suit as they enjoy in the courts of the State where the judgment was rendered.
The Court in Allen left open the possibility, however, that the preclusive effect of a state-court judgment might be different as to a federal issue that a   1983 litigant could have raised but did not raise in the earlier state-court proceeding.
Petitioner did not litigate her   1983 claim in state court, and she asserts that the state-court judgment should not preclude her suit in federal court simply because her federal claim could have been litigated in the state-court proceeding.
Thus, petitioner urges this Court to interpret the interplay of   1738 and   1983 in such a way as to accord state-court judgments preclusive effect in   1983 suits only as to issues actually litigated in state court.
The argument that state-court judgments should have less preclusive effect in   1983 suits than in other federal suits is based on Congress' expressed concern over the adequacy of    state courts as protectors of federal rights.
Any distrust of state courts that would justify a limitation on the preclusive effect of state judgments in   1983 suits would presumably apply equally to issues that actually were decided in a state court as well as to those that could have been.
Having rejected in Allen the view that state-court judgments have no issue preclusive effect in   1983 suits, we must reject the view that   1983 prevents the judgment in petitioner's state- court proceeding from creating a claim preclusion bar in this case.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals, accordingly, is vacated, and the case is remanded to that court so that it may instruct the District Court to conduct such further proceedings as are required by, and are consistent with, this opinion.