Plaintiffs are the beneficiaries and heirs of Charles and Rosa Nelson, husband and wife, and Opal Nelson, the only daughter of Charles and  Rosa. Charles and Rosa, and later Opal, owned a dwelling house and lot in Selma, Iowa. The Nelson family's ownership of this property spanned a period extending from 1922 until Opal's death in 1981. The property was abandoned by Opal's personal representative at the time of the final settlement of her estate because of substantial unpaid real estate taxes and other clouds on the title.
Following trial of this claim, the district court found that Charles Nelson was the true owner of the money and had buried it at the location where it was found by the agents of the Church. The court, relying on Iowa Code section 633.488 (1989), concluded, however, that any claims of the plaintiffs to this cash hoard had to be brought within five years of the order of final settlement in Opal Nelson's estate.
The Church has crossappealed, challenging the district court's finding that plaintiffs had established Charles Nelson to be the true owner of the money.
When a declaratory judgment action is utilized to settle ownership of lost or mislaid property and that action proceeds to a final judgment, this court may review such judgment pursuant to Iowa Rule of Civil Procedure 267.
The general rule is that the finder of lost property becomes the owner thereof against the whole world other than the true owner.
1 Am. Jur.2d Abandoned, Lost, and Unclaimed Property ยง 2, at 4 (1962) [hereinafter 1 Am.Jur.2d]. The right of possession of mislaid property is in the owner of the premises upon which it is found, as against all persons other than the true owner.
In applying the rules of ownership relating to lost or mislaid property, courts are in general agreement that if the original owner is deceased that person's heirs or legatees are entitled to lay claim to the property.
Although the district court found that Charles Nelson had been the owner of the found money and that his interest therein had passed to Opal, it concluded that plaintiffs were barred from claiming by, through, or under Opal. It based this conclusion on the five-year limitation which section 633.488 places on reopening a final settlement in an estate.
IV. Defendant's Cross-Appeal. As a final matter, we must consider the Church's attempt to save the judgment on the assertion that the court erred  in finding Charles Nelson to be the owner of the money.
REVERSED IN PART, AFFIRMED IN PART, AND REMANDED 