The trial court held that the mortgage given by John Harms to defendants Carl and Mary Simmons severed  the joint tenancy.
The appellate court reversed, finding that the mortgage given by one joint tenant of his interest in the property does not sever the joint tenancy.
In Peoples Trust & Savings Bank v. Haas (1927), 328 Ill. 468, the court found that a judgment lien secured against one joint tenant did not serve to extinguish the joint tenancy.
The court found that the levy was "not such an act as can be said to have the effect of a divestiture of title * * * [so as to destroy the] identity of interest or of any other unity which must occur before * * * the estate of joint tenancy has been severed and destroyed." 390 Ill. 449, 455.
In yet another case involving the attachment of a judgment lien upon the interest of a joint tenant, Jackson v. Lacey (1951), 408 Ill. 530, the court held that the estate of joint tenancy had not been destroyed.
It follows, therefore, that if Illinois perceives a mortgage as merely a lien on the mortgagor's interest in property rather than a conveyance of title from mortgagor to mortgagee, the execution of a mortgage by a joint tenant, on his interest in the property, would not destroy the unity of title and sever the joint tenancy.
Consistent with this title theory of mortgages, therefore, there are many cases which state, in dicta, that a joint tenancy is severed by one of the joint tenants mortgaging his interest to a stranger.
We find, however, that implicit in Kling and our more recent cases which follow the lien theory of mortgages is the conclusion that a joint tenancy is not severed when one joint tenant executes a mortgage on his interest in the property, since the unity of title has been preserved.
While John Harms was alive, the mortgage existed as a lien on his interest in the joint tenancy.
In their petition to supplement defendant Sprague's petition for leave to appeal, the Simmonses argue that the application of section 20-19 of the Probate Act of 1975 (Ill. Rev. Stat. 1981, ch. 110 1/2, par. 20-19) to the facts of this case would mandate a finding that their mortgage on the subject property remains as a valid encumbrance in the hands of the surviving joint tenant.
Judgment affirmed 