Prior to the start of the hearing, respondent also filed suit in the United States District Court for the Western District of Tennessee, alleging that his proposed discharge was racially motivated and seeking relief under Title VII and other civil rights statutes, including 42    U. S. C.   1983.
The   Sixth Circuit found the following passage from Kremer directly on point: "EEOC review [pursuant to 42 U. S. C.   2000e-5(b)] of discrimination charges previously rejected by state agencies would be pointless if the federal courts were bound by such agency decisions.
It held that 28 U. S. C.   1738,  which concerns the preclusive effect of "judicial   proceedings of any [state] court," does not require that federal courts be bound by the unreviewed findings of state administrative agencies.
The court recognized that a similar argument for denying res judicata effect to state-court judgments in subsequent   1983 actions was rejected in Allen v. McCurry, 449 U.S. 90 (1980), and Migra v. Warren City School District Board of Education, 465 U.S. 75 (1984), but distinguished those cases as based on the explicit command of   1738.
We granted certiorari to consider petitioner's contention that the Sixth Circuit erred in holding that state administrative factfinding is never entitled to preclusive effect in actions under Title VII or the Reconstruction civil rights statutes.
Title 28 U. S. C.   1738 governs the preclusive effect to be given the judgments and records of state courts, and is not applicable to the unreviewed state administrative factfinding at issue in this case.
In Chandler, we held that a federal employee whose discrimination claim was rejected by her employing agency after an administrative hearing was entitled to a trial de novo in federal court on her Title VII claim.
After reviewing in considerable detail the language of Title VII and the history of the 1972 amendments to the statute, we concluded: "The legislative history of the 1972 amendments reinforces the plain meaning of the statute and confirms that Congress intended to accord federal employees the same right to a trial de novo [following administrative proceedings] as is enjoyed by private- sector employees and employees of state governments and political subdivisions    under the amended Civil Rights Act of 1964."
On the basis of our analysis in Kremer and Chandler of the language and legislative history of Title VII, we conclude that the Sixth Circuit correctly held that Congress did not intend unreviewed state administrative proceedings to have preclusive effect on Title VII claims.
As we stated in Allen: "[N]othing in the language of   1983 remotely expresses any congressional intent to contravene the common-law rules of preclusion or to repeal the express statutory requirements of the predecessor of 28 U. S. C.   1738. .
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed in part and reversed in part, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.