Appellants in this case sought to construct a new dwelling on their beach lot that would both diminish visual access to the beach and move private development closer to the public tidelands.
In this case, California has employed its police power in order to condition development upon preservation of public access to the ocean and tidelands.
It is thus puzzling that the Court characterizes as a "non-land use justification," ante at 483 U. S. 841, the exercise of the police power to "provide continuous public access along Faria Beach as the lots undergo development or redevelopment.'"
The Commission's determination that certain types of development jeopardize public access to the ocean, and that such development should be conditioned on preservation of access, is the essence of responsible land use planning.
The Commission specifically stated in its report in support of the permit condition that "[t]he Commission finds that the applicants' proposed development would present an increase in view blockage, an increase in private use of the shorefront, and that this impact would burden the public's ability to traverse to and along the shorefront."
The record prepared by the Commission is replete with references to the threat to public access along the coastline resulting from the seaward encroachment of private development along a beach whose mean high-tide line is constantly shifting.
The imposition of the permit condition was therefore directly related to the fact that appellants' development would be "located along a unique stretch of coast where lateral public access is inadequate due to the construction of private residential structures and shoreline protective devices along a fluctuating shoreline."
The deed restriction was crafted to deal with the particular character of the beach along which appellants sought to build, and with the specific problems created by expansion of development toward the public tidelands.
The Court is therefore simply wrong that there is no reasonable relationship between the permit condition and the specific type of burden on public access created by the appellants' proposed development.
See supra at 483 U. S. 847-848 (quoting Art. X, ยง 4, of California Constitution). The constitutional provision guaranteeing public access to the ocean states that "the Legislature shall enact such laws as will give the most liberal construction to this provision so that access to the navigable waters of this State shall be always attainable for the people thereof."
This provision is the explicit basis for the statutory directive to provide for public access along the coast in new development projects, Cal.Pub.Res.Code Ann. ยง 30212 (West 1986), and has been construed by the state judiciary to permit passage over private land where necessary to gain access to the tidelands.
The physical access to the perimeter of appellants' property at issue in this case thus results directly from the State's enforcement of the State Constitution. Finally, the character of the regulation in this case is not unilateral government action, but a condition on approval of a development request submitted by appellants.
Thus, appellants benefit both as private landowners and as members of the public from the fact that new development permit requests are conditioned on preservation of public access.
The Coastal Commission Interpretative Guidelines make clear that fulfillment of the Commission's constitutional and statutory duty requires that approval of new coastline development be conditioned upon provisions ensuring lateral public access to the ocean.
At the time of appellants' permit request, the Commission had conditioned all 43 of the proposals for coastal new development in the Faria Family Beach Tract on the provision of deed restrictions ensuring lateral access along the shore.
Even were we somehow to concede a preexisting expectation of a right to exclude, appellants were clearly on notice when requesting a new development permit that a condition of approval would be a provision ensuring public lateral access to the shore.
The deed restriction was "authorized by law at the time of [appellants' permit] submission," Monsanto, supra, at 467 U. S. 1007, and, as earlier analysis demonstrates, supra, at 483 U. S. 849-853, was reasonably related to the objective of ensuring public access.
In requesting a new development permit from the Commission, they could have no reasonable expectation of, and had no entitlement to, approval of their permit application without any deed restriction ensuring public access to the ocean.
The Coastal Commission has drawn on its expertise to preserve the balance between private development and public access by requiring that any project that intensifies development on the increasingly crowded California coast must be offset by gains in public access.
The deed restriction ensures that disputes about the boundary between private and public property will not deter the public from exercising its right to have access to the sea.
Finally, appellants can claim the disruption of no expectation interest, both because they have no right to exclude the public under state law and because, even if they did, they had full advance notice that new development along the coast is conditioned on provisions for continued public access to the ocean.
I dissent 