The Court's attempt to downplay the seriousness of the charges of incompetence is unconvincing: "The only allegations concerning the jurors' ability to properly consider the evidence were Hardy's observations that some jurors were `falling asleep all the time during the trial,' and that Hardy's own reasoning ability was affected on one day of the trial."
The basis for the Court's ruling is the mistaken belief that juror testimony concerning drug and alcohol abuse at trial is inadmissible under Federal Rule of Evidence 606(b) and is contrary to the policies the Rule was intended to advance. 1I readily acknowledge the important policy considerations supporting the common-law rule against admission of jury testimony to impeach a verdict, now embodied in Federal Rule of Evidence 606(b): freedom of deliberation, finality of verdicts, and protection of jurors against harassment by dissatisfied litigants.
In this case, however, we are not faced with a conflict between the policy considerations underlying Rule 606(b) and petitioners' Sixth Amendment rights. 1Rule 606(b) is not applicable to juror testimony on matters unrelated to the jury's deliberations.
Rule 606(b) provides, in relevant part:  "[A] juror may not testify as to any matter or statement occurring during the course of the jury's deliberations or to the effect of anything upon his or any other juror's mind or emotions as influencing him to assent to or dissent from the verdict or indictment or concerning his mental processes in connection therewith, except that a juror may testify on the question whether extraneous prejudicial information was improperly brought to the jury's attention or whether any outside influence was improperly brought to bear upon any juror." 1Rule 606(b) expressly authorizes jurors to testify as to "extraneous prejudicial information" or "outside influence."
Because petitioners' claim of juror misconduct and incompetency involves objectively verifiable conduct occurring prior to deliberations, juror testimony in support of the claims is admissible under Rule 606(b).
As the Court emphasizes, the debate over two proposed versions of the Rule — the more restrictive Senate version ultimately adopted and the permissive House version, reproduced ante, at 123, n., focused on the extent to which jurors would be permitted to testify as to what transpired during the course of the deliberations themselves.
Similarly, the Conference Committee Report, quoted by the Court, ante, at 125, compares the two versions solely in terms of the admissibility of testimony as to matters occurring during, or relating to, the jury's deliberations: "[T]he House bill allows a juror to testify about objective matters occurring during the jury's deliberation, such as the misconduct of another juror or the reaching of a quotient verdict.
The obvious conclusion, and the one compelled by Rule 601, is that both versions of Rule 606(b) would have permitted jurors to testify as to matters not involving deliberations.
Reflecting Congress' consistent focus on the deliberative process, it suggests only that the authors of the House Report believed that the Senate version of Rule 606(b) did not allow testimony as to juror intoxication during deliberations.
of Justice Analysis and Recommendations Regarding Revised Draft of Proposed Rules of Evidence for the U.S. Courts and Magistrates). As the Court explains, ante, at 124, the Senate rejected the House version because it "would have the effect of opening verdicts up to challenge on the basis of what happened during the jury's internal deliberations, for example, where a juror alleged that the jury refused to follow the trial judge's instructions or that some of the jurors did not take part in deliberations."
Even if I agreed with the Court's expansive construction of Rule 606(b), I would nonetheless find the testimony of juror intoxication admissible under the Rule's "outside influence" exception.
See 3 Weinstein Berger, Weinstein's Evidence, supra, ¶ 606, pp. 606-29 — 606-32 ("Rule 606(b) would not render a witness incompetent to testify to juror irregularities such as intoxication...regardless of whether the jury misconduct occurred within or without the jury room"). 1The Court suggests that, if these are outside influences, "a virus, poorly prepared food, or a lack of sleep" would also qualify.
The source for the reference is a letter to the House Subcommittee, to the effect that the version of the Rule adopted by the Senate would not allow inquiry into juror consumption of alcohol during deliberations.
I3II The Court acknowledges that "postverdict investigation into juror misconduct would in some instances lead to the invalidation of verdicts reached after irresponsible or improper juror behavior," but maintains that "[i]t is not at all clear...that the jury system could survive such efforts to perfect it."
I dissent 