I agree with JUSTICE SCALIA that the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment generally permits a state  court to exercise jurisdiction over a defendant if he is served with process while voluntarily present in the forum State. I do not perceive the need, however, to decide that a jurisdictional rule that " `has been immemorially the actual law of the land,' " ante, at 619, quoting Hurtado v. California, 110 U.S. 516, 528 (1884), automatically comports with due process simply by virtue of its "pedigree."
" 326 U. S., at 316, quoting Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U.S. 457, 463 (1940). In Shaffer, we stated that "all assertions of state-court jurisdiction must be evaluated according to the standards set forth in International Shoe and its progeny." 433  U. S., at 212 (emphasis added).
If we could discard an "ancient form without substantial modern justification" in Shaffer, supra, at 212, we can do so again. Lower courts, commentators, and the American Law Institute  all have interpreted International Shoe and Shaffer to mean that every assertion of state-court jurisdiction, even one pursuant to a "traditional" rule such as transient jurisdiction, must comport with contemporary notions of due process.
Notwithstanding the nimble gymnastics of JUSTICE  SCALIA's opinion today, it is not faithful to our decision in Shaffer. II Tradition, though alone not dispositive, is of course relevant to the question whether the rule of transient jurisdiction is consistent with due process. Tradition is salient not in the sense that practices of the past are automatically reasonable today; indeed, under such a standard, the legitimacy of transient jurisdiction would be called into question because the rule's historical "pedigree" is a matter of intense debate.
For much of the 19th century, American courts did not uniformly recognize the concept of transient jurisdiction, and it appears that the  transient rule did not receive wide currency until well after our decision in Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714 (1878). Rather, I find the historical background relevant because, however murky the jurisprudential origins of transient jurisdiction,  the fact that American courts have announced the rule for perhaps a century (first in dicta, more recently in holdings) provides a defendant voluntarily present in a particular State today "clear notice that [he] is subject to suit" in  the forum.
 In this case, it is undisputed that petitioner was served with process while voluntarily and knowingly in the State of California. I therefore concur in the judgment 