The State of South Carolina prohibited petitioner Lucas from building a permanent structure on his property from 1988 to 1990.
Relying on an unreviewed (and implausible) state trial court finding that this restriction left Lucas' property valueless, this Court granted review to determine whether compensation must be paid in cases where the State prohibits all economic use of real estate.
C The South Carolina Supreme Court found that the Beachfront Management Act did not take petitioner's property without compensation.
The decision rested on two premises that, until today, were unassailable -- that the State has the power to prevent any use of property it finds to be harmful to its citizens, and that a state statute is entitled to a presumption of constitutionality.
Because that legislative determination cannot be disregarded in the absence of such evidence, see, e.g., Euclid, 272 U.S. at 388; O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 282 U.S. 251, 257-258 (1931) (Brandeis, J. ), and because its determination [p1041] of harm to life and property from building is sufficient to prohibit that use under this Court's cases, the South Carolina Supreme Court correctly found no taking.
This Court has held consistently that a land use challenge is not ripe for review until there is a final decision about what uses of the property will be permitted.
The Court admits that the 1990 amendments to the Beachfront Management Act allowing special permits preclude Lucas from asserting that his property has been permanently taken.
The Court agrees that such a claim would not be ripe, because there has been no final decision by respondent on what uses will be permitted.
The Court creates its new taking jurisprudence based on the trial court's finding that the property [p1044] had lost all economic value.
Despite Lucas' complete failure to contest the legislature's findings of serious harm to life and property if a permanent structure is built, the Court decides that the legislative findings are not sufficient to justify the use prohibition.
From now on, there is a categorical rule finding these regulations to be a taking unless the use they [p1047] prohibit is a background common law nuisance or property principle.
More than a century ago, the Court explicitly upheld the right of States to prohibit uses of property injurious to public health, safety, or welfare without paying compensation: A prohibition simply upon the use of property for purposes that are declared, by valid legislation, to be injurious to the health, morals, or safety of the community, cannot, in any just sense, be deemed a taking or an appropriation of property.
[n8] In Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U.S. 678 (1888), the Court upheld legislation prohibiting the manufacture of oleomargarine, despite the owner's allegation that, if prevented from continuing it, the value of his property employed therein would be entirely lost, and he be deprived of the means of livelihood.
In Hadacheck v. Sebastian, 239 U.S. 394 (1915), the Court upheld an ordinance prohibiting a brickyard, although the owner had made excavations on the land that prevented it from being utilized for any purpose but a brickyard.
Again, in Omnia Commercial Co. v. United States, 261 U.S. 502 (1923), the Court stated that "destruction of, or injury to, property is frequently accomplished without a 'taking' in the constitutional sense."
In 1978, the Court declared that, in instances in which a state tribunal reasonably concluded that "the health, safety, morals, or general welfare" would be promoted by prohibiting particular contemplated uses of land, this Court has upheld land use regulation that destroyed...recognized real property interests.
[p1050] The Court recognizes that our prior opinions have suggested that "harmful or noxious uses" of property may be proscribed by government regulation without the requirement of compensation, ante at 1022, but seeks to reconcile them with its categorical rule by claiming that the Court never has upheld a regulation when the owner alleged the loss of all economic value.
In none of the cases did the Court suggest that the right of a State to prohibit certain activities without paying compensation turned on the availability of some residual valuable use.
[n13] These cases rest on the principle that the State has full power to prohibit an owner's use of property if it is harmful to the public.
Instead, the Court decides that it will permit a State to regulate all economic value only if the State prohibits uses that would not be permitted under "background principles of nuisance and property law."
[n16] The brewery closed in Mugler itself was not a common law nuisance, and the Court specifically stated that it was the role of the legislature to determine [p1053] what measures would be appropriate for the protection of public health and safety.
In upholding the state action in Miller, the Court found it unnecessary to weigh with nicety the question whether the infected cedars constitute a nuisance according to common law; or whether they may be so declared by statute. 276 U.S. at 280.
[n17] The Court rejects the notion that the State always can prohibit uses it deems a harm to the public without granting compensation because "the distinction between ‘harm-preventing' and ‘benefit-conferring' regulation is often in the eye of the beholder."
In determining what is a nuisance at common law, state courts make exactly the decision that the Court finds so troubling when made by the South Carolina General Assembly today: they determine whether the use is harmful.
C Finally, the Court justifies its new rule that the legislature may not deprive a property owner of the only economically valuable use of his land, even if the legislature finds it to be a harmful use, because such action is not part of the "long recognized" "understandings of our citizens."
The principle that the State should compensate individuals for property taken for public use was not widely established in America at the time of the Revolution. The colonists...inherited...a concept of property which permitted extensive regulation of the use of that property for the public benefit -- regulation that could even go so far as to deny all productive use of the property to the owner if, as Coke himself stated, the regulation "extends to the public benefit...for this is for the public, and every one hath benefit by it."
If the Court decided that the law of a later period provides the background principles, then regulation might be compensable, but the Court would have to confront the fact that legislatures regularly determined which uses were prohibited, independent of the common law, and independent of whether the uses were lawful when the owner purchased.
I dissent 