We decide today whether the exchange of a gun for narcotics constitutes "use" of a firearm "during and in relation to...[a] drug trafficking crime" within the meaning of 18 U. S. C. § 924(c)(1).
Under 18 U. S. C. § 924(c)(1), a defendant who so uses a firearm  must be sentenced to five years' incarceration.
On appeal, petitioner argued that § 924(c)(1)'s penalty for using a firearm during and in relation to a drug trafficking offense covers only situations in which the firearm is used as a weapon.
In United States v. Phelps, 877 F.2d 28 (1989), however, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held that trading a gun in a drugrelated transaction could not constitute use of a firearm during and in relation to a drug trafficking offense within the meaning of § 924(c)(1).
Instead we confine our discussion to what the parties view as the dispositive issue in this case: whether trading a firearm for drugs can constitute "use" of the firearm within the meaning of § 924(c)(1).
Rather, § 924(c)(1)'s language sweeps broadly, punishing any "us[e]" of a firearm, so long as the use is "during and in relation to" a drug trafficking offense.
In any event, the only question in this case is whether the phrase "uses...a firearm" in § 924(c)(1) is most reasonably read as excluding the use of a firearm in a gun-for-drugs trade.
As we already have noted, see supra, at 227-228, and will explain in greater detail later, infra, at 237-239, § 924(c)(1) requires not only that the defendant "use" the firearm, but also that he use it "during and in relation to" the drug trafficking crime.
As a result, the defendant who "uses" a firearm to scratch his head, see post, at 242, or for some other innocuous purpose, would avoid punishment for that conduct altogether: Although scratching one's head with a gun might constitute "use," that action cannot support punishment under § 924(c)(1) unless it facilitates or furthers the drug crime; that the firearm served to relieve an itch is not enough.
* Thus, it is clear  from § 924(d)(3) that one who transports, exports, sells, or trades a firearm "uses" it within the meaning of § 924(d)(1)— even though those actions do not involve using the firearm as a weapon.
Unless we are to hold that using a firearm has a different meaning in § 924(c)(1) than it does in § 924(d)— and clearly we should not, United Savings Assn., supra, at 371—we must reject petitioner's narrow interpretation.
Just as a defendant may "use" a firearm within the meaning of § 924(c)(1) by trading it for drugs or using it to shoot someone, so too would a defendant "carry" the firearm by keeping it on his person whether he intends to exchange it for cocaine or fire it in self-defense.
" Ibid. For our purposes, it is sufficient to recognize that, because § 924(d)(1) includes both using a firearm for trade and using a firearm as a weapon as "us[ing] a firearm," it is most reasonable to construe § 924(c)(1) as encompassing both of those "uses" as well.
Finally, it is argued that § 924(c)(1) originally dealt with use of a firearm during crimes of violence; the provision concerning use of a firearm during and in relation to drug trafficking offenses was added later.
Accordingly, we conclude that using a firearm in a guns-for-drugs trade may constitute "us[ing] a firearm" within the meaning of § 924(c)(1).
Instead, the firearm must be used "during and in relation to" a "crime of violence or drug trafficking crime." 18 U. S. C. § 924(c)(1).
Petitioner, however, does dispute whether his use of the firearm was "in relation to" the drug trafficking offense.
District of Columbia v. Greater Washington Board of Trade, 506 U.S. 125, 129 (1992) (the phrase "relate to" is "deliberately expansive" (internal quotation marks omitted)), as the Courts of Appeals construing § 924(c)(1) have recognized, United States v. Phelps, 877 F. 2d, at 30 ("[t]he phrase `in relation to' is broad"); United States v. Harris, 294 U. S. App. D. C., at 315, 959 F. 2d, at 261 (per curiam) (firearm is used "in relation to" the crime if it "facilitate[s] the predicate offense in some way").
The phrase "in relation to" thus, at a minimum, clarifies that the firearm must have some purpose or effect with respect to the drug trafficking crime; its presence or involvement cannot be the result of accident or coincidence.
As one court has observed, the "in relation to" language "allay[s] explicitly the concern that a person could be" punished under § 924(c)(1) for committing a drug trafficking offense "while in possession of a firearm" even though the firearm's presence is coincidental or entirely "unrelated" to the crime.
Relying on the decision of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Phelps and on the legislative record, petitioner insists that the relationship between the gun and the drug offense in this case is not the type of connection Congress contemplated when it drafted § 924(c)(1).
The Ninth Circuit held that the gun was not used or carried "in relation to" the drug trafficking offense because it was used as an item of barter and not as a weapon.
We therefore see no reason why Congress would have intended courts and juries applying § 924(c)(1) to draw a fine metaphysical distinction between a gun's role in a drug offense as a weapon and its role as an item of barter; it creates a grave possibility of violence and death in either capacity.
Both a firearm's use as a weapon and its use as an item of barter fall within the plain language of § 924(c)(1), so long as the use occurs during and in relation to a drug trafficking offense; both must constitute "uses" of a firearm for § 924(d)(1) to make any sense at all; and both create the very dangers and risks that Congress  meant § 924(c)(1) to address.
We therefore hold that a criminal who trades his firearm for drugs "uses" it during and in relation to a drug trafficking offense within the meaning of § 924(c)(1).
The judgment of the Court of Appeals, accordingly, is affirmed.