The majority first take the position that Moore has no cause of action for conversion under existing law because he retained no "ownership interest" in his cells after they were removed from his body.
1   Moore thereafter alleges that "he is the owner of his Blood and Bodily Substances and of the byproducts produced therefrom...." And he further alleges that such blood and bodily substances "are his tangible personal property, and the activities of the defendants as set forth herein constitute a substantial interference with plaintiff's possession or right thereto, as well as defendants' wrongful exercise of dominion over plaintiff's personal property rights in his Blood and Bodily Substances." The majority impliedly hold these allegations insufficient as a matter of law, finding three "reasons to doubt" that Moore retained a sufficient ownership interest in his cells, after their excision, to support a conversion cause of action.
I need not review the many instances in which this court has broken fresh ground by announcing new rules of tort law: time and again when a new rule was needed we did not stay our hand merely because the matter was one of first impression. 2   For example, in Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories (1980) 26 Cal.3d 588 , we adopted a "market share" theory of liability for injury resulting from administration of a prescription drug and suffered by a plaintiff who without fault cannot trace the particular manufacturer of the drug that caused the harm.
The majority's second reason for doubting that Moore retained an ownership interest in his cells after their excision is that "California statutory law ... drastically limits a patient's control over excised cells."
For this proposition the majority rely on Health and Safety Code section 7054. (hereafter section 7054.4), set forth in the margin. 5   The majority concede that the statute was not meant to directly resolve the question whether a person in Moore's position has a cause of action for conversion, but reason that it indirectly resolves the question by limiting the patient's control over the fate of his excised cells: "By restricting how excised cells may be used and requiring their eventual destruction, the statute eliminates so many of the rights ordinarily attached to property that one cannot simply assume that what is left amounts to `property' or `ownership' for purposes of conversion law."
The complaint also alleges that defendant Regents of the University of California (hereafter Regents) actively assisted the individual defendants in applying for patent rights and in negotiating with bioengineering and pharmaceutical companies to exploit the commercial potential of Moore's tissue.
Secondly, even if section 7054. does permit defendants' commercial exploitation of Moore's tissue under the guise of "scientific use," it does not follow that — as the majority conclude — the statute "eliminates so many of the rights ordinarily attached to property" that what remains does not amount to "property" or "ownership" for purposes of the law of conversion.
For example, both law and contract may limit the right of an owner of real property to use his parcel as he sees fit. 6   Owners of various forms of personal property may likewise be subject to restrictions on the time, place, and manner of their use. 7   Limitations on the disposition of real    property, while less common, may also be imposed. 8   Finally, some types of personal property may be sold but not given away, 9 while others may be given away but not sold, 10   and still others may neither be given away nor sold. 11 In each of the foregoing instances, the limitation or prohibition diminishes the bundle of rights that would otherwise attach to the property, yet what remains is still deemed in law to be a protectible property interest.
The same rule applies to Moore's interest in his own body tissue: even if we assume that section 7054. limited the use and disposition of his excised tissue in the manner claimed by the majority, Moore nevertheless retained valuable rights in that tissue.
The majority's third and last reason for their conclusion that Moore has no cause of action for conversion under existing law is that "the subject matter of the Regents' patent — the patented cell line and the products derived from it — cannot be Moore's property."
Second, the majority assert in effect that Moore cannot have an ownership interest in the Mo cell line because defendants patented it. 12   The majority's point wholly fails to meet Moore's claim that he is entitled to compensation for defendants' unauthorized use of his bodily tissues before defendants    patented the Mo cell line: defendants undertook such use immediately after the splenectomy on October 20, 1976, and continued to extract and use Moore's cells and tissue at least until September 20, 1983; the patent, however, did not issue until March 20, 1984, more than seven years after the unauthorized use began.
Thus the complaint alleges that Moore's "Blood and Bodily Substances were absolutely essential to defendants' research and commercial activities with regard to his cells, cell lines, [and] the Mo cell-line, ... and that defendants could not have applied for and had issued to them the Mo cell-line patent and other patents described herein without obtaining and culturing specimens of plaintiff's Blood and Bodily Substances." Defendants admit this allegation by their demurrers, as well they should: for all their expertise, defendants do not claim they could have extracted the Mo cell line out of thin air.
Nevertheless the majority conclude that the patent somehow cut off all Moore's rights — past, present, and future — to share in the proceeds of defendants' commercial exploitation of the cell line derived from his own body tissue.
omitted, italics added (hereafter Danforth).) Under this reasoning, which I find persuasive, the law of patents would not be a bar to Moore's assertion of an ownership interest in his cells and their products sufficient to warrant his sharing in the proceeds of their commercial exploitation. 4.
The majority's first reason is that a balancing of the "relevant policy considerations" counsels against recognizing a conversion cause of action in  [51 Cal.3d  these circumstances.
The memo identifies two such policies, but concedes that one of them — "protection of a competent patient's right to make autonomous medical decisions" (id. at p. 143) — would in fact be promoted, even though "indirectly," by recognizing a conversion cause of action.
The majority focus instead on a second policy consideration, i.e., their concern "that we not threaten with disabling civil liability innocent parties who are engaged in socially useful activities, such as researchers who have no reason to believe that their use of a particular cell sample is, or may be, against a donor's wishes."
As will appear, in my view this concern is both overstated and outweighed by contrary considerations. 14 The majority begin their analysis by stressing the obvious facts that research on human cells plays an increasingly important role in the progress of medicine, and that the manipulation of those cells by the methods of biotechnology has resulted in numerous beneficial products and treatments.
An even greater force for restricting the free exchange of new cell lines and their products has been the rise of the biotechnology industry and the increasing involvement of academic researchers in that industry. 15 When scientists became entrepreneurs and negotiated with biotechnological and pharmaceutical companies to develop and exploit the commercial potential of their discoveries — as did defendants in the case at bar — layers of contractual restrictions were added to the protections of the patent law. 16 In their turn, the biotechnological and pharmaceutical companies demanded and received exclusive rights in the scientists' discoveries, and frequently placed those discoveries under trade secret protection.
The majority claim that a conversion cause of action threatens to "destroy the economic incentive" to conduct the type of research here in issue (maj. opn., ante, p. 146), but it is difficult to take this hyperbole seriously.
It arises wherever scientists or industrialists claim, as defendants claim here, the right to appropriate and exploit a patient's tissue for their sole economic benefit — the right, in other words, to freely mine or harvest valuable physical properties of the patient's body: "Research with human cells that results in significant economic gain for the researcher and no gain for the patient offends the traditional mores of our society in a manner impossible to quantify.
While he may be a silent partner, his contribution to the venture is absolutely crucial: as pointed out above (pt. 3, ante), but for the cells of Moore's body taken by defendants there would have been no Mo cell line at all. 20   Yet defendants deny that Moore is entitled to any share whatever in the proceeds of this cell line.
By selective quotation of the statutes (maj. opn., ante, p. 137, fns. 22 & 23) the majority seem to suggest that human organs and blood cannot legally be sold on the open market — thereby implying that if the Legislature were to act here it would impose a similar ban on monetary compensation for the use of human tissue in biotechnological research and development.
No section of the UAGA prohibits anyone from selling body parts for any of those additional purposes; by clear implication, therefore, such sales are legal. 23   Indeed, the fact that the UAGA prohibits no sales of organs other than sales for "transplantation" or "therapy" raises a further implication that it is also legal for anyone to sell human tissue to a biotechnology company for research and development purposes.
The majority rely (maj. opn., ante, p. 137, fn. 23) on Health and Safety Code section 1606, which provides in relevant part that the procurement and use of blood for transfusion "shall be construed to be, and is declared to be ... the rendition of a service ... and shall not be construed to be, and is declared not to be, a sale...." There is less here, however, than meets the eye: the statute does not mean that a person cannot sell his blood or, by implication, that his blood is not his property.
It follows that the statutes regulating the transfers of human organs and blood do not support the majority's refusal to recognize a conversion cause of action for commercial exploitation of human blood cells without consent.
The majority's final reason for refusing to recognize a conversion cause of action on these facts is that "there is no pressing need" to do so because the complaint also states another cause of action that is assertedly adequate to the task (maj. opn., ante, p. 147); that cause of action is "the breach of a fiduciary duty to disclose facts material to the patient's consent or, alternatively, ... the performance of medical procedures without first having obtained the patient's informed consent" (id. at p. 129). 24 Although last, this reason is not the majority's least; in fact, it underlies much of the opinion's discussion of the conversion cause of action, recurring like a leitmotiv throughout that discussion.
The majority hold that a physician who intends to treat a patient in whom he has either a research interest or an economic interest is under a fiduciary duty to disclose such interest to the patient before treatment, that his failure to do so may give rise to a nondisclosure cause of action, and that the complaint herein states such a cause of action at least against defendant Golde. I agree with that holding as far as it goes.
(Cobbs v. Grant, supra, 8 Cal.3d 229, 245.) 26 Even in an ordinary Cobbs-type action it may be difficult for a plaintiff to prove that no reasonably prudent person would have consented to the proposed treatment if the doctor had disclosed the particular risk of physical harm that ultimately caused the injury.
But that imbalance will be even greater in the kind of nondisclosure action that the majority now contemplate: here we deal not with a risk of physical injuries such as a stroke, but with the possibility that the doctor might later use some of the patient's cast-off tissue for scientific research or the development of commercial products.
The second reason why the nondisclosure cause of action is inadequate for the task that the majority assign to it is that it fails to solve half the problem before us: it gives the patient only the right to refuse consent, i.e., the right to prohibit the commercialization of his tissue; it does not give him the right to grant consent to that commercialization on the condition that he share in its proceeds.
The majority claim that "Moore relies ... primarily" on an analogy to certain right-of-privacy decisions (maj. opn., ante, pp. 137-138), but this is not accurate.
As far as I know, no member of this court is trained as a molecular biologist, or even as a physician; without expert testimony in the record, therefore, the majority are not competent to explain these arcane points of medical science any more than a doctor would be competent to explain esoteric questions of the law of negotiable  Cal.3d 184]  instruments or federal income taxation, or the rule against perpetuities. 28   In attempting to expound this science the majority run two serious risks.
Mosk, J., and Broussard, J., were of the opinion that the petition should be granted 