I. INTRODUCTION We granted review in this case to determine whether plaintiff has stated a cause of action against his physician and other defendants for using his cells   potentially lucrative medical research without his permission.
Plaintiff alleges that his physician failed to disclose preexisting research and economic interests in the cells before obtaining consent to the medical procedures by which they were extracted.
The plaintiff is John Moore (Moore), who underwent treatment for hairy-cell leukemia at the Medical Center of the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA Medical Center). The five defendants are: (1) Dr. David W. Golde (Golde), a physician who attended Moore at UCLA Medical Center; (2) the Regents of the University of California (Regents), who own and operate the university; (3) Shirley G. Quan, a researcher employed by the Regents; (4) Genetics Institute, Inc. (Genetics Institute); and (5) Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation and related entities (collectively Sandoz). Moore first visited UCLA Medical Center on October 5, 1976, shortly after he learned that he had hairy-cell leukemia.
"In fact, [however,] throughout the period of time that [Moore] was under [Golde's] care and treatment, ... the defendants were actively involved in a number of activities which they concealed from [Moore]...." Specifically, defendants were conducting research on Moore's cells and planned to "benefit financially and competitively ... [by exploiting the cells] and [their] exclusive access to [the cells] by virtue of [Golde's] ongoing physician-patient relationship...."   Sometime before August 1979, Golde established a cell line from Moore's T-lymphocytes. January 30, 1981, the Regents applied for a patent on the cell line, listing Golde and Quan as inventors.
Genetics Institute also agreed to pay Golde and the Regents "at least $330,000 over three years, including a pro-rata share of [Golde's] salary and fringe benefits, in exchange for ... exclusive access to the materials and research performed" on the cell line and products derived from it.
In a subsequent proceeding, the superior court sustained Genetics Institute's and Sandoz's demurrers without leave to amend on the grounds that Moore had not stated a cause of action for conversion and that the complaint's allegations about the entities' secondary liability were too conclusory.
III. DISCUSSION A. Breach of Fiduciary Duty and Lack of Informed Consent (2a) Moore repeatedly alleges that Golde failed to disclose the extent of his research and economic interests in Moore's cells  before obtaining consent to the medical procedures by which the cells were extracted.
This cause of action can properly be characterized either as the breach of a fiduciary duty to disclose facts material to the patient's consent or, alternatively, as the performance of medical procedures without first having obtained the patient's informed consent.
These principles lead to the following conclusions: (1) a physician must disclose personal interests unrelated to the patient's health, whether research or economic, that may affect the physician's professional judgment; and (2) a physician's failure to disclose such interests may give rise to a cause of action for performing medical procedures without informed consent or breach of fiduciary duty.
  Golde argues that the scientific use of cells that have already been removed cannot possibly affect the patient's medical interests.
Accordingly, we hold that a physician who is seeking a patient's consent for a medical procedure must, in order to satisfy his fiduciary duty  and to obtain the patient's informed consent, disclose personal interests unrelated   to the patient's health, whether research or economic, that may affect his medical judgment. 1.
In our view, these allegations adequately show that Golde had an undisclosed research interest in Moore's cells at the time he sought Moore's consent to the splenectomy.
Moore admits in his complaint that defendants disclosed they "were engaged in strictly academic and purely scientific medical research...." However, Golde's representation that he had no financial interest in this research became false, based upon the allegations, at least by May 1979, when he "began to investigate and initiate the procedures ... for [obtaining] a patent" on the cell line developed from Moore's cells.
But, as already discussed, Moore clearly alleges that Golde had developed a research interest in his cells by October 20, 1976, when the splenectomy was performed.
Thus, Moore can state a cause of action based upon Golde's alleged failure to disclose that interest before the splenectomy.
The superior court also held that the lack of essential allegations prevented Moore from stating a cause of action based on the splenectomy.
Because the superior court found that Moore    had not stated such a cause of action, it had no occasion to address the sufficiency of Moore's allegation that the Regents and Quan were acting as Golde's "agent[s]" and "joint venturer[s]."
In a later proceeding, however, the superior court did find that the same allegations were too conclusory to state a cause of action against Genetics Institute and Sandoz. The Court of Appeal did not hold, explicitly or implicitly, that Moore's secondary-liability allegations were sufficient as against any defendant.
The court did hold that Moore had stated a cause of action against the Regents and Quan. However, the court did not reach that conclusion on the basis of secondary liability.
He theorizes that he continued to own his cells following their removal from his body, at least for the purpose of directing their use, and that he never consented to their use in potentially    lucrative medical research.
Nally v. Grace Community Church, supra, 47 Cal.3d 278, 291-300 [declining to expand negligence law to encompass theory of "clergyman malpractice"]; Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654, 694-700     [declining to apply tort remedies for breach of the covenant of good faith in the employment context]; Brown v. Superior Court (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1049, 1061- 1066  [declining to apply strict products liability to pharmaceutical manufacturers].)
Neither the Court of Appeal's opinion, the parties' briefs, nor our research discloses a case holding that a person retains a sufficient interest in excised cells to support a cause of action for conversion.
Lacking direct authority for importing the law of conversion into this context, Moore relies, as did the Court of Appeal, primarily on decisions   addressing privacy rights.
), (4d) Since conversion is a strict liability tort,  it would impose liability on all those into whose hands the cells come, whether or not the particular defendant participated in, or knew of, the inadequate disclosures that violated the patient's right to make an informed decision.
So long as a physician discloses research and economic interests that may affect his judgment, the patient is protected from conflicts of interest.
The case is remanded to the Court of Appeal, which shall direct the superior court to: (1) overrule Golde's demurrers to the causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty and lack of informed consent; (2) sustain, with leave to amend, the demurrers of the Regents, Quan, Sandoz, and Genetics Institute to the purported causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty and lack of informed consent; (3) sustain, without leave to amend, all defendants' demurrers to the purported cause of action for conversion; and (4) hear and determine all defendants' remaining demurrers 