In this instance, North America neither confirmed nor rejected the June 26, 1969, Chandler purchase orders by written acknowledgment nor did it send its invoices to Chandler. However, on July 2, 1969, Chandler received two acknowledgments of the orders for plywood from Continental, both dated June 27, 1969, one for a carload of 1/2 inch plywood, and the other for a carload of 5/8 inch plywood.
The acknowledgments also referred to the Chandler purchase orders 3246 and 3247 which had been sent to North America Millwork. It is not entirely clear how Continental received Chandler's orders sent to North America. Apparently Ed Barker left his employment with North America and commenced brokering for Continental and gave the orders to Continental. On July 7, 1969, the Monday following the Fourth of July holiday, Earl Chandler, the president of appellant company, in his  own handwriting, wrote on each duplicate copy of the acknowledgments of orders received from Continental, "Purchased from North America Millwork. Earl Chandler 7-7-69" and directed that they be mailed to Continental. Earl Chandler testified that in writing this notation he assumed that Continental was making the shipments for North America. Mrs. Hebein, Earl Chandler's secretary, testified that she mailed these copies of the acknowledgments of orders, addressed to Continental, by regular mail.
On August 11, 1969, Chandler made a check for $3,636. payable to both Continental and North America Millwork and returned it to North America Millwork in payment of these two carloads of plywood.
In calculating the amount of the payment, Chandler first deducted the 2% discount for the two carloads of plywood and also deducted a $6,212. trade debt owing from North America to Chandler. North America returned Chandler's check and denied that Chandler owed it money for the shipment of plywood.
Appellant first assigned as error the trial court's failure to find that Continental's  claim was subject to Chandler's right of set off against North America. In the trial court's memorandum opinion, rendered on May 26, 1971, the court discussed the relationship between Continental and Chandler and found that "the very least we have was an implied agreement or quasi contract."
In this case it is clear that there is neither an express nor an implied in fact contract since there was an express rejection by Chandler of any intention to enter into a contract with Continental as evidenced by the notation made on the acknowledgments and Chandler's subsequent attempts to pay North America Millwork for the carloads of plywood.
Those facts are that Chandler had placed the orders initially with North America Millwork, knowing that he had a trade set off; that the North America Millwork employee Ed Barker left his employment with North America Millwork and apparently took the Chandler orders with him, and that the orders subsequently wound up in the Continental organization; that Continental, without notifying Chandler that Barker had terminated his employment with North America and was now brokering for Continental, mailed its acknowledgments of the two orders which Chandler had placed with North America Millwork, referring to them by Chandler purchase order numbers which were sent to North America Millwork; that Chandler wrote on those acknowledgments that he had purchased the plywood from North America Millwork and mailed the acknowledgments back to Continental; and that Chandler attempted to make payment for the plywood to North America Millwork. If any party was responsible for the situation present in this case, it was Continental. Although it is not entirely clear from the record, it would appear that Barker breached the fiduciary duty which he owed to his employer North America Millwork by taking the Chandler purchase orders to Continental. Continental then, wittingly or unwittingly, took advantage of that breach of a fiduciary relationship and filled the orders, apparently without inquiry concerning the status of North America Millwork, the existence of a trade debt, the situation behind Barker's taking the purchase orders to Continental, or notifying Chandler that it was attempting to take over the North America transactions.
Judgment reversed and remanded. 