In People v Olivo, defendant was observed by a security guard in the hardware area of a department store.
The conviction was affirmed by Appellate Term. In People v Gasparik, defendant was in a department store trying on a leather jacket.
The jury found defendant guilty of petit larceny, and the conviction was affirmed by the Appellate Term. The primary issue in each case is whether the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the prosecution, was sufficient to establish the elements of larceny as defined by the Penal Law. To resolve this common question, the development of the common-law crime of larceny and its evolution into modern statutory form must be briefly traced.
The early common-law courts apparently viewed larceny as defending society against breach of the peace, rather than protecting individual property rights, and therefore placed heavy emphasis upon the requirement of a trespassory taking (e.g., Fletcher, Metamorphosis of Larceny, 89 Harv L Rev 469; American Law Institute, Model Panel Code [Tent Draft No. 1], art 206, app A, at p 101; La Fave & Scott, Criminal Law, ยง 85, at pp 622-623).
In these situations, the employee and the customer would not have been guilty of larceny if they had first obtained lawful possession of the property from the owner.
The crime of larceny then encompassed, not only situations where the defendant initially obtained property by a trespassory taking, but many situations where an individual, possessing the requisite intent, exercised control over property inconsistent with the continued rights of the owner.
 In People v Olivo, defendant not only concealed goods in his clothing, but he did so in a particularly suspicious manner.
 In People v Gasparik, defendant removed the price tag and sensor device from a jacket, abandoned his own garment, put the jacket on and ultimately headed for the main floor of the store.
In People v Spatzier, defendant concealed a book in an attache case.
In sum, in view of the modern definition of the crime of larceny, and its purpose of protecting individual property rights, a taking of property in the self-service store context can be established by evidence that a customer exercised control over merchandise wholly inconsistent with the store's continued rights.
Accordingly, in each case, the order of the Appellate Term should be affirmed.