On a daily basis, we rely on the tools of cyberspace to help us make, maintain, and rekindle friendships; find places to live, work, eat, and travel; exchange views on topics ranging from terrorism to patriotism; and enlighten ourselves on subjects from "aardvarks to Zoroastrianism. " The majority's unprecedented expansion of liability for Internet service providers threatens to chill the robust development of the Internet that Congress envisioned.
To promote the unfettered development of the Internet, Congress adopted the Communications Decency Act of 1996 ("CDA"), which provides that interactive computer service providers will not be held legally responsible for publishing information provided by third parties.
Even though traditional publishers retain liability for performing essentially equivalent acts in the "non-virtual world," Congress chose to treat interactive service providers differently by immunizing them from liability stemming from sorting, searching, and publishing third-party information.
Now, with the stroke of a pen or, more accurately, a few strokes of the keyboard, the majority upends the settled view that interactive service providers enjoy broad immunity when publishing information provided by third parties.
Yet that is precisely the path Congress took with the CDA: the anomaly that a webhost may be immunized for conducting activities in cyberspace that would traditionally be cause for liability is exactly what Congress intended by enacting the CDA. In the end, the majority offers interactive computer service providers no bright lines and little comfort in finding a home within § 230(c)(1).
The majority's decision, which sets us apart from five circuits, contravenes congressional intent and violates the spirit and serendipity of the Internet. Specifically, the majority's analysis is flawed for three reasons: (1) the opinion conflates the questions of liability under the FHA and immunity under the CDA; (2) the majority rewrites the statute with its definition of "information content provider," labels the search function "information development," and strips interactive service providers of immunity; and (3) the majority's approach undermines the purpose  of § 230(c)(1) and has far-reaching practical consequences in the Internet world.
Section 230(c)(1) provides: (1) Treatment of publisher or speaker No provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the publisher or speaker of any information provided by another information content provider.
Since it was first addressed in 1997 in Zeran, this section has been interpreted by the courts as providing webhost "immunity," although to be more precise, it provides a safe haven for interactive computer service providers by removing them from the traditional liabilities attached to speakers and publishers. See Zeran, 129 F.3d at 330 ("By its plain language, § 230 creates a federal immunity to any cause of action that would make service providers liable for information originating with a third-party user of the service.").
The statute then defines an "information content provider" as a "person or entity that is responsible, in whole or in part, for the creation or development of information provided through the Internet or any other interactive computer service."
If the provider of an interactive computer service is an information content provider of the information at issue, it cannot claim immunity as a publisher or speaker.
Application of § 230(c)(1) to Roommate's Website Because our focus is on the term "information content provider," and what it means to create or develop information, it is worth detailing exactly how the website operates, what information is at issue and who provides it.
A close reading of the statute leads to the conclusion that Roommate is not an information content provider for two reasons: (1) providing a drop-down menu does not constitute "creating" or "developing" information; and (2) the structure and text of the statute make plain that Congress intended to immunize Roommate's sorting, displaying, and transmitting of third-party information.
The user has identified himself as such and provided that information to Roommate to publish.
The majority's definition of "development" would transform every interactive site into an information content provider and the result would render illusory any immunity under § 230(c).
See, e.g., § 230(b)(3) (stating that "[i]t is the policy of the United States to encourage the development of technologies which maximize user control over what information is received by individuals, families, and' schools") (emphasis added). Defining "development" in this way keeps intact the settled rule that the CDA immunizes a webhost who exercises a publisher's "traditional editorial functions — such as deciding whether to publish, withdraw, postpone, or alter content."
The majority blusters that Roommate develops information, because it "requir[es] subscribers to provide the information as a condition of accessing its services," and "designed its search system so it would steer users based on the preferences and personal characteristics that Roommate itself forces subscribers to disclose."
Even if Roommate's prompts and drop-down menus could be construed to seek out, or encourage, information from users, the CDA does not withhold immunity for the encouragement or solicitation of information. See Blumenthal, 992 F.Supp. at 52 (stating that "Congress has made a different policy choice by providing immunity even where the interactive service provider has an active, even aggressive role in making available content prepared by others.")
A number of district courts have recently encountered the claim that an interactive website's solicitation of information, by requiring user selection of content from drop-down menus, transformed it into an information content provider.
Global Royalties, 2007 WL 2949002, at *3, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 77551, at *9; see also Corbis, 351 F.Supp.2d at 1118 (holding that even though Amazon.com "may have encouraged third parties to use the Zshops platform and provided the tools to assist them, that does not disqualify it from immunity under § 230 because the Zshops vendor ultimately decided what information to put on its site.").
Carafano presented circumstances virtually indistinguishable from those before us, yet the majority comes to the exact opposite conclusion here in denying immunity for sorting and matching third-party information provided in response to webhost prompts.
We held that § 230(c)(1) immunized the dating service, and flatly rejected the proposition that matching, sorting, and publishing user information in response to webhost prompts abrogated CDA immunity.
A provider's "decision to structure the information provided by users," which enables the provider to "offer additional features, such as `matching' profiles with similar characteristics or highly structured searches based on combinations of multiple choice questions," ultimately "promotes the expressed Congressional policy `to promote the continued development of the Internet and other interactive computer services.'"
The structure of the statute also supports my view that Congress intended to immunize Roommate's sorting and publishing of user profiles.
By providing a definition for "access software provider" that is distinct from the definition of an "information content provider," and withholding immunity for "information content providers," the statute makes resoundingly clear that packaging, sorting, or publishing third-party information are not the kind of activities that Congress associated with "information content providers."
The unwise narrowing of our precedent, coupled with the mixing and matching of CDA immunity with substantive liability, make it exceedingly difficult for website providers to know whether their activities will be considered immune under the CDA. We got it right in Carafano, that "[u]nder § 230(c)...so long as a third party willingly provides the essential published content, the interactive service provider receives full immunity regardless of the specific editing or selection process."
The absence of a statutory exemption suggests that Congress did not intend to provide special case status to the FHA in connection with immunity under the CDA. See TRW Inc. v. Andrews, 534 U.S. 19, 28, 122 S.Ct. 441, 151 L.Ed.2d 339 (2001) (stating that "[w]here Congress explicitly enumerates certain exceptions to a general prohibition, additional exceptions are not to be implied, in the absence of evidence of a contrary legislative intent.")
I respectfully dissent and would affirm the district court's judgment that Roommate is entitled to immunity under § 230(c)(1) of the CDA, subject to examination of whether the bare inquiry itself is unlawful 