Subscribers who pay a monthly fee also gain the ability to read emails from other users, and to view other subscribers' "Additional Comments." The Fair Housing Councils of the San Fernando Valley and San Diego ("Councils") sued Roommate in federal court, alleging that Roommate's business violates the federal Fair Housing Act ("FHA"), 42 U.S.C. § 3601 et seq., and California housing discrimination laws. Councils claim that Roommate is effectively a housing broker doing online what it may not lawfully do offline.
The district court held that Roommate is immune under section 230 of the CDA, 47 U.S.C. § 230(c), and dismissed the federal claims without considering whether Roommate's actions violated the FHA. The court then declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over the state law claims.
Thus, a website may be immune from liability for  some of the content it displays to the public but be subject to liability for other content. Section 230 was prompted by a state court case holding Prodigy responsible for a libelous message posted on one of its financial message boards. See Stratton Oakmont, Inc. v. Prodigy Servs. Co., 1995 WL 323710 (N.Y.Sup.Ct.
Councils allege that requiring subscribers to disclose their sex, family status and sexual orientation "indicates" an intent to discriminate against them, and thus runs afoul of both the FHA and state law. Roommate created the questions and choice of answers, and designed its website registration process around them.
Therefore, Roommate is undoubtedly the "information content provider" as to the questions and can claim no immunity for posting them on its website, or for forcing subscribers to answer them as a condition of using its services.
The Communications Decency Act was not meant to create a lawless noman's-land on the Internet.  Councils also claim that requiring subscribers to answer the questions as a condition of using Roommate's services unlawfully "cause[s]" subscribers to make a "statement...with respect to the sale or rental of a dwelling that indicates [a] preference, limitation, or discrimination," in violation of 42 U.S.C. § 3604(c).
The content of these pages is drawn directly from the registration process: For example, Roommate requires subscribers to specify, using a drop-down menu provided by Roommate, whether they are "Male" or "Female" and then displays that information on the profile page.
The dissent tilts at windmills when it shows, quite convincingly, that Roommate's subscribers are information content providers who create the profiles by picking among options and providing their own answers.
See Batzel v. Smith, 333 F.3d 1018, 1033 (9th Cir.2003).  Here, the part of the profile that is alleged to offend the Fair Housing Act and state housing discrimination laws — the information about sex, family status and sexual orientation — is provided by subscribers in response to Roommate's questions, which they cannot refuse to answer if they want to use defendant's services.
For the dissent to claim that the information in such circumstances is "created solely by" the customer, and that the business has not helped in the least to develop it, Dissent at 1181-82, strains both credulity and English. Roommate also argues that it is not responsible for the information on the profile page because it is each subscriber's action that leads to publication of his particular profile — in other words, the user pushes the last button or takes the last act before publication.
Similarly, Roommate is not entitled to CDA immunity for the operation of its search system, which filters listings, or of its email notification system, which directs emails to subscribers according to discriminatory criteria. Roommate designed its search system so it would steer users based on the preferences and personal characteristics that Roommate itself forces subscribers to disclose.
However, a website operator who edits in a manner that contributes to the alleged illegality — such as by removing the word "not" from a user's message reading "[Name] did not steal the artwork" in order to transform an innocent message into a libelous one — is directly involved in the alleged illegality and thus not immune. Here, Roommate's connection to the discriminatory filtering process is direct and palpable: Roommate designed its search and email systems to limit the listings available to subscribers based on sex, sexual orientation and presence of children. Roommate selected the criteria used to hide listings, and Councils allege that the act of hiding certain listings is itself unlawful under the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits brokers from steering clients in accordance with discriminatory  preferences. We need not decide the merits of Councils' claim to hold that Roommate is sufficiently involved with the design and operation of the search and email systems — which are engineered to limit access to housing on the basis of the protected characteristics elicited by the registration process — so as to forfeit any immunity to which it was otherwise entitled under section 230.
The newsletter editor incorporated the tipster's email into the next issue of his newsletter and added a short headnote, which he then emailed to his subscribers. The art owner sued for libel and a split panel held the newsletter editor to be immune under section 230 of the CDA. Our opinion is entirely consistent with that part of Batzel which holds that an editor's minor changes to the spelling, grammar and length of third-party content do not strip him of section 230 immunity.
As we explain above, see pp. 1165-69 supra, even if the data are supplied by third parties, a website operator may still contribute to the content's illegality and thus be liable as a developer. Providing immunity every time a website uses data initially obtained from third parties would eviscerate the exception to section 230 for "develop[ing]" unlawful content "in whole or in part."
The fact that Roommate encourages subscribers to provide something in response to the prompt is not enough to make it a "develop[er]" of the information under the common-sense interpretation of the term we adopt today.
Its simple, generic prompt does not make it a developer of the information posted. Councils argue that — given the context of the discriminatory questions presented earlier in the registration process — the "Additional Comments" prompt impliedly suggests that subscribers should make statements expressing a desire to discriminate on the basis of protected classifications; in other words, Councils allege that, by encouraging some discriminatory preferences, Roommate encourages other discriminatory preferences when it gives subscribers a chance to describe themselves.
We hold Roommate immune and there is no reason to believe that future courts will have any difficulty applying this principle. The message to website operators is clear: If you don't encourage illegal content, or design your website to require users to input illegal content, you will be immune.
When Congress passed section 230 it didn't' intend to prevent the enforcement of all laws online; rather, it sought to encourage interactive computer services that provide users neutral tools to post content online to police that content without fear that through their "good Samaritan...screening of offensive material," 47 U.S.C. § 230(c), they would become liable for every single message posted by third parties on their website.
* * * In light of our determination that the CDA does not provide immunity to Roommate for all of the content of its website and email newsletters, we remand for the district court to determine in the first instance whether the alleged actions for which Roommate is not immune violate the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. § 3604(c). We vacate the dismissal of the state law claims so that the district court may reconsider whether to exercise its supplemental jurisdiction in light of our ruling on the federal claims.
REVERSED in part, VACATED in part, AFFIRMED in part and REMANDED. 