In an admirable effort to frame its inquiries in broadly significant terms, the majority offers five pages of commentary on the issue of whether an owner of property can challenge  regulations adopted prior to her acquisition of that property without ever discussing the particular facts or legal claims at issue in this case.
If the application of such restriction to a property owner would cause her a "direct and substantial injury," e. g., Chicago v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., 357 U. S. 77, 83 (1958), I have no doubt that she has standing to challenge the restriction's validity whether she acquired title to the property before or after the regulation was adopted.
This reading is consistent with the Court's analysis in Part II—A of its opinion (which I join) in which the Court explains that petitioner's takings claims are ripe for decision because respondents' wetlands regulations unequivocally provide that there can be "no fill for any likely or foreseeable use."
Given the trial court's finding that petitioner did not own the property at that time, in my judgment it is pellucidly clear  that he has no standing to claim that the promulgation of the regulations constituted a taking of any part of the property that he subsequently acquired.
If the regulations are invalid, either because improper procedures were followed when they were adopted, or because they have somehow gone "too far," Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393, 415 (1922), petitioner may seek to enjoin their enforcement, but he has no right to recover compensation for the value of property taken from someone else.
The matter of standing to assert a claim for just compensation is determined by the impact of the event that is alleged to have amounted to a taking rather than the sort of notice that a purchaser may or may not have received when the property was transferred.
For the reasons expressed above, I think the regulations barred petitioner from filling the wetlands on his property.
In either event, the judgment of the Rhode Island Supreme Court should be affirmed in its entirety 