The district court held that chapter 644 applies only to "lost" property and the money here was mislaid property.
He claims that the trial court should have found that the property was treasure trove or was lost or abandoned rather than mislaid, thereby entitling the finder to the property.
The bank asserts in its cross-appeal that it owns the premises where the money was found—the airplane—and that no one is entitled to a finder's fee because chapter 644 does not apply to mislaid property.
Whether the money found by Benjamin was treasure trove or was mislaid, abandoned or lost property is a fact question.
Benjamin argues that chapter 644 governs the rights of finders of property and abrogates the common law distinctions between types of found property.
1390 (1936) (public policy reflected in lost property statute is "to provide a reward to the finder of lost goods"); Willsmore v. Township of Oceola, 106 Mich.App. 671, 308 N.W.2d 796, 804 (1981) (lost goods act "provides protection to the finder, a reasonable method of uniting goods with their true owner, and a plan which benefits the people of the state through their local governments"). These  goals, Benjamin argues, can best be achieved by applying such statutes to all types of found property.
The Michigan court noted that the common law distinctions between categories of found property were embraced in Michigan after the enactment of its lost property statute.
However, the Michigan court did not address the fact that the common law distinctions were first developed in England, before the enactment of most states' lost property statutes. See Goodard v. Winchell, 86 Iowa 71, 52 N.W.
Thus, the trial court correctly looked to the common law classifications of found property to decide who had the right to the money discovered here.
It differs from lost property in that the owner voluntarily and intentionally places mislaid property in the location where it is eventually found by another.
The right of possession of mislaid property belongs to the owner of the premises upon which the property is found, as against all persons other than the true owner.
Jur.2d Abandoned Property § 6, at 11-12 ("The place where money or property claimed as lost is found is an important factor in the determination of the question of whether it was lost or only mislaid.").
The place where Benjamin found the money and the manner in which it was hidden are also important here.
195, 284 S.W.2d 333, 336 (1955) (holding that money found buried under garage floor was mislaid property as a matter of law because circumstances showed that money was placed there deliberately and court presumed that owner had either forgotten where he hid the money or had died before retrieving it).
The same facts that support the trial court's conclusion that the money was mislaid prevent us from ruling as a matter of law that the property was lost.
1 Am.Jur.2d Abandoned Property § 6, at 12; see Sovern, 20 P. at 105 (holding that coins found in a jar under a wooden floor of a barn were not lost property because the circumstances showed that the money was hidden there intentionally); see Farrare v. City of Pasco, 68 Wn.App. 459, 843 P.2d 1082, 1084 (1993) (where currency was deliberately concealed, it cannot be characterized as lost property).
The location where this money was found is much more consistent with the conclusion that the owner of the property was placing the money there for safekeeping.
We think the district court had substantial evidence to support its finding that the money found by Benjamin was mislaid.
The circumstances of its concealment and the location where it was found support inferences that the owner intentionally placed the money there and intended to retain ownership.
Because the money discovered by Benjamin was properly found to be mislaid property, it belongs to the owner of the premises where it was found.
Because the property found by Benjamin was mislaid property, not lost property, section 644. does not apply here.
We conclude that the district court's finding that the money discovered by Benjamin was mislaid property is supported by substantial evidence.
AFFIRMED IN PART; REVERSED IN PART 