Because the Takings Clause requires the government to pay compensation when it deprives owners of all economically viable use of their land, see Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council, 505 U. S. 1003 (1992), and because a ban on all development lasting almost six years does not resemble any traditional land-use planning device, I dissent.
The "temporary" prohibition in this case that the Court finds is not a taking lasted almost six years.
 The "permanent" prohibition that the Court held to be a taking in Lucas lasted less than two years.
Our opinion in First English Evangelical Lutheran Church of Glendale v. County of Los Angeles, 482 U. S. 304 (1987), rejects any distinction between temporary and permanent takings when a landowner is deprived of all economically beneficial use of his land.
Because of First English `s rule that "temporary deprivations of use are compensable under the Takings Clause," the Court in Lucas found nothing problematic about the later developments that potentially made the ban on development temporary. 505 U. S., at 1011-1012 (citing First English, supra ); see also 505 U. S., at 1033 (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment) ("It is well established that temporary takings are as protected by the Constitution as are permanent ones" (citing First English, supra, at 318)).
In "the extraordinary circumstance when no productive or economically beneficial use of land is permitted," it is less likely that "the legislature is simply  `adjusting the benefits and burdens of economic life'...in a manner that secures an `average reciprocity of advantage' to everyone concerned," Lucas, supra, at 1017-1018 (quoting Penn Central Transp. Co. v. New York City, 438 U. S., at 124, and Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S., at 415), and more likely that the property "is being pressed into some form of public service under the guise of mitigating serious public harm," Lucas, supra, at 1018.
The Court also reads Lucas as being fundamentally concerned with value, ante, at 329-331, rather than with the denial of "all economically beneficial or productive use of land," 505 U. S., at 1015.
Lucas is implicated when the government deprives a landowner of "all economically beneficial or productive use of land." 505 U. S., at 1015.
Thus, in Lucas, after holding that the regulation prohibiting all economically beneficial use of the coastal land came within our categorical takings rule, we nonetheless inquired into whether such a result "inhere[d] in the title itself, in the restrictions that background principles of the State's law of property and nuisance already place upon land ownership." 505 U. S., at 1029.
Because the regulation at issue in Lucas purported to be permanent, or at least long term, we concluded that the only implied limitation of state property law that could achieve a similar long-term deprivation of all economic use would be something "achieved in the courts—by adjacent landowners (or other uniquely affected persons) under the State's law of private nuisance, or by the State under its complementary power to abate nuisances that affect the public generally, or otherwise."
But a moratorium prohibiting all economic use for a period of six years is not one of the longstanding, implied limitations of state property law.
 Moratoria are "interim controls on the use of land that seek to maintain the status quo with respect to land development in an area by either `freezing' existing land uses or by allowing the issuance of building permits for only certain land uses that would not be inconsistent with a contemplated zoning plan or zoning change." 1 E. Ziegler, Rathkopf's The Law of Zoning and  Planning § 13:3, p. 13-6 (4th ed. 2001).
But this case does not require us to decide as a categorical matter whether moratoria prohibiting all economic use are an implied limitation of state property law, because the duration of this "moratorium" far exceeds that of ordinary moratoria.
Mahon, 260 U. S., at 416 