In this case, we address whether the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has appellate jurisdiction over a case in which the complaint does not allege a claim arising under federal patent law, but the answer contains a patent-law counterclaim.
Section 1338(a), in turn, provides in relevant part that "[t]he district courts shall have original jurisdiction of any civil action arising under any Act of Congress relating to patents...." Thus, the Federal Circuit's jurisdiction is fixed with reference to that of the district court, and turns on whether the action arises under federal patent law. Section 1338(a) uses the same operative language as 28 U. S. C. § 1331, the statute conferring general federalquestion jurisdiction, which gives the district courts "original jurisdiction of all civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States."
The well-pleaded-complaint rule has long governed whether a case "arises under" federal law for purposes of § 1331. See, e. g., Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Texaco Inc., 415 U.S. 125, 127-128 (1974) (per curiam).
As "appropriately adapted to § 1338(a)," the well-pleadedcomplaint rule provides that whether a case "arises under" patent law "must be determined from what necessarily appears in the plaintiff's statement of his own claim in the bill or declaration...." Christianson, 486 U. S., at 809 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Coastal States Marketing, Inc. v. New England Petroleum Corp., 604 F.2d 179, 183 (CA2 1979) ("The use of the phrase `cases and controversies arising under'...is strong evidence that Congress intended to borrow the body of decisional law that has developed under 28 U. S. C. § 1331 and other grants of jurisdiction to the district courts over cases `arising under' various regulatory statutes").
It would be an unprecedented feat of interpretive necromancy to say that § 1338(a)'s "arising under" language means one thing (the well-pleadedcomplaint rule) in its own right,  but something quite different (respondent's complaintorcounterclaim rule) when referred to by § 1295(a)(1). * * * Not all cases involving a patent-law claim fall within the Federal Circuit's jurisdiction.
By limiting the Federal Circuit's jurisdiction to cases in which district courts would have jurisdiction under § 1338, Congress referred to a wellestablished body of law that requires courts to consider whether a patent-law claim appears on the face of the plaintiff's well-pleaded complaint.
See 28 U. S. C. § 1631 