This appeal presents a question that remains surprisingly unanswered by the circuit courts: Does the sale of an item via the eBay Internet auction site provide sufficient "minimum contacts" to support personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant in the buyer's forum state?
The district court reasoned that the lone jurisdictionally relevant contact with California, an eBay sale consummated with a California purchaser, was insufficient to establish jurisdiction over any of the Defendants.
Although Hansing used eBay to market the automobile, the district court observed that "eBay acted not as a `distribution center' but rather as a virtual forum for the exchange of goods," and that in a standard eBay transaction—like the one at issue in this appeal—the item goes to whomever is the highest bidder, and so "the eBay seller does not purposefully avail himself of the privilege of doing business in a forum state absent some additional conduct directed at the forum state."
"For a court to exercise personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant, that defendant must have at least `minimum contacts' with the relevant forum such that the exercise of jurisdiction `does not offend traditional notions  of fair play and substantial justice.'"
We apply a three-part test to determine whether the exercise of specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant is appropriate: (1) The non-resident defendant must purposefully direct his activities or consummate some transaction with the forum or resident thereof; or perform some act by which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and protections of its laws; (2) the claim must be one which arises out of or relates to the defendant's forum-related activities; and (3) the exercise of jurisdiction must comport with fair play and substantial justice, i.e.
(internal citation omitted); see also McGlinchy v. Shell Chemical Co., 845 F.2d 802, 817 (9th Cir.1988) (distinguishing purposeful direction precedents where "personal jurisdiction is sought on a contract claim, not on a tort claim").
Here, Boschetto fails at step one of the test for specific jurisdiction, as the lone transaction for the sale of one item does not establish that the Defendants purposefully availed themselves of the privilege of doing business in California.
2174; see also Doe v. Unocal Corp., 248 F.3d 915, 924 (9th Cir.2001) ("However, an individual's contract with an out-of-state party alone [cannot] automatically establish sufficient minimum contacts to support personal jurisdiction.")
1154 (1950) (purposeful availment found if "business activities reach out beyond one state and create continuing relationships and obligations") (emphasis added). Ignoring the limited nature of the transaction at issue, Boschetto attaches special significance to the fact that the transaction  was consummated via eBay, noting that the eBay listing could have been viewed by anyone in California (or any other state for that matter) with Internet access.
But, as the district court noted, "the issue is not whether the court has personal jurisdiction over the intermediary eBay but whether it has personal jurisdiction over an individual who conducted business over eBay."
Here, the eBay listing was not part of broader e-commerce activity; the listing temporarily advertised a good for sale and that listing closed once the item was sold, thereby extinguishing the Internet contact for this transaction within the forum state (and every other forum). Moreover, Boschetto does not allege that any of the Defendants are using eBay to conduct business generally.
But he does not go on to allege — on information and belief or otherwise — that either Hansing or the Boucher Defendants are  regular users of the eBay sales platform to sell their cars. This is a distinction with a difference, as the cases that have found that jurisdiction was proper based on eBay sales relied heavily on the fact that the defendant was using the platform as a broader vehicle for commercial activity.
2007) (evidence of two prior sales to Louisiana residents in prior year); Dedvukaj v. Maloney, 447 F.Supp.2d 813, 822-23 (E.D.Mich.2006) ("Although the Court's research has not disclosed any personal jurisdiction cases involving the use of eBay auctions as a commercial seller's primary marketing vehicle, it is clear from the record that Defendants' use of eBay is regular and systemic.
Where eBay is used as a means for establishing regular business with a remote forum such that a finding of personal jurisdiction comports with "traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice," International Shoe Co., 326 U.S. at 316, 66 S.Ct.
While it might be jurisdictionally relevant if Hansing or the Boucher Defendants had used eBay to conduct a significant quantity of automobile sales to California residents or in other states, neither Boschetto's complaint nor his affidavit allege that any of the Defendants are engaged in such sales.
See Butcher's Union Local No. 498 v. SDC Inv., Inc., 788 F.2d 535, 540 (9th Cir.1986) (holding that district court did not abuse its discretion by refusing jurisdictional discovery where the plaintiffs "state only that they `believe' discovery will enable them to demonstrate sufficient California business contacts to establish the court's personal jurisdiction").
CONCLUSION The sale of one automobile via the eBay website, without more, does not provide sufficient "minimum contacts" to establish jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant in the forum state.
AFFIRMED 