Federal courts should await a clear signal from Congress before treating such auxiliary claims as "arising under" the laws of the United States. I FEHBA assigns to OPM responsibility for negotiating and regulating health-benefits plans for federal employees.
FEHBA contains a preemption provision, which originally provided: "The provisions of any contract under this chapter which relate to the nature or extent of coverage or benefits (including payments with respect to benefits) shall supersede and preempt any State or local law, or any regulation issued thereunder, which relates to health insurance or plans to the extent that such law or regulation is inconsistent with such contractual provisions." 5 U. S. C. § 8902(m)(1) (1994 ed.).
 To ensure uniform coverage and benefits under plans OPM negotiates for federal employees, see H. R. Rep. No. 95-282, p. 1 (1977), § 8902(m)(1) preempted "State laws or regulations which specify types of medical care, providers of care, extent of benefits, coverage of family members, age limits for family members, or other matters relating to health benefits or coverage," id., at 4-5 (noting that some States mandated coverage for services not included in federal plans, for example, chiropractic services).
The purpose of this provision—evident from its reference to the Court of Federal Claims—was to carve out an exception to the statutory rule that claims brought against the United States and exceeding $10,000 must originate in the Court of Federal Claims. See 28 U. S. C. § 1346(a)(2) (establishing district courts' jurisdiction, concurrent with the Court of Federal Claims, over claims against the United States that do not exceed $10,000); see also S. Rep. No. 1654, 83d Cong., 2d Sess., 4-5 (1954) (commenting, with respect to an identical provision in the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act, 5 U. S. C. § 8715, that the provision "would extend the jurisdiction of United States district courts above the $10,000 limitation now in effect").
While this regulation channels  disputes over coverage or benefits into federal court by designating a United States agency (OPM) sole defendant, no law opens federal courts to carriers seeking reimbursement from beneficiaries or recovery from tortfeasors.
Cf. 29 U. S. C. § 1132(e)(1) (provision of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) vesting in federal district courts "exclusive jurisdiction of civil actions under this subchapter").
Answering McVeigh's motion, Empire urged that the District Court had jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1331 because federal common law governed its reimbursement claim.
Quoting Boyle v. United Technologies Corp., 487 U.S. 500, 507, 508 (1988), the appeals court stated that courts may create federal common law only when "the operation of state law would (1) `significant[ly] conflict' with (2) `uniquely federal interest[s].'" 396 F. 3d, at 140.
Empire maintained that its contract-derived claim against McVeigh implicated "`uniquely federal interest[s],'" because (1) reimbursement directly affects the United States Treasury and the cost of providing health benefits to federal employees; and (2) Congress had expressed its interest in maintaining uniformity among the States on matters relating to federal healthplan benefits.
The court acknowledged that the case involved distinctly federal interests, but found that Empire had not identified "specific ways in which the operation of state contract law, or indeed of  other laws of general application, would conflict materially with the federal policies underlying FEHBA in the circumstances presented."
The Court of Appeals next considered and rejected Empire's argument that FEHBA's preemption provision, 5 U. S. C. § 8902(m)(1), independently conferred federal jurisdiction. 396 F. 3d, at 145-149.
Unlike § 8912, which "authoriz[es] federal jurisdiction over FEHBA-related...claims `against the United States,'" the court noted, § 8902(m)(1) "makes no reference to a federal right of action [in] or to federal jurisdiction [over]" the contract-derived reimbursement claim here at issue. 396 F. 3d, at 145, and n. 7.
In her view, FEHBA's preemption provision, § 8902(m)(1), as amended in 1998, both calls for the application of uniform federal common law to terms in a FEHBA plan and establishes federal jurisdiction over Empire's complaint.
III Title 28 U. S. C. § 1331 vests in federal district courts "original jurisdiction" over "all civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States." A  case "aris[es] under" federal law within the meaning of § 1331, this Court has said, if "a well-pleaded complaint establishes either that federal law creates the cause of action or that the plaintiff's right to relief necessarily depends on resolution of a substantial question of federal law."
The United States argues, alternatively, that there is federal jurisdiction here, as demonstrated by our recent decision in Grable & Sons Metal Products, Inc. v. Darue Engineering & Mfg., 545 U.S. 308 (2005), because "federal law is a necessary element of [Empire's] claim."
The Court held that "[t]he rights and duties of the United States on commercial paper which it issues are governed by federal rather than [state] law." 318 U. S., at 366.
In post-Clearfield decisions, and with the benefit of enlightened commentary, see, e. g., Friendly, supra, at 410, the Court has "made clear that uniform federal law need not be applied to all questions in federal government litigation, even in cases involving government contracts," R. Fallon, D. Meltzer, & D. Shapiro, Hart and Wechsler's The Federal Courts and the Federal System 700 (5th ed. 2003) (hereinafter Hart and Wechsler). "[T]he prudent course," we have recognized, is often "to adopt the readymade body of state  law as the federal rule of decision until Congress strikes a different accommodation."
It is undisputed that Congress has not expressly created a federal right of action enabling insurance carriers like Empire to sue health-care beneficiaries in federal court to enforce reimbursement rights under contracts contemplated by FEHBA. Empire and the United States nevertheless argue that, under our 1982 opinion in Jackson Transit, Empire's claim for reimbursement, arising under the contract between OPM and the BCBSA, "states a federal claim" because Congress intended all rights and duties stemming from that contract to be "federal in nature."
The reliance placed by Empire and the United States on Jackson Transit is surprising, for that decision held there was no federal jurisdiction over the claim in suit.
Id., at 22 (emphasis added) (citing Machinists v. Central Airlines, Inc., 372 U.S. 682 (1963) (union had a federal right of action to enforce an airline-adjustment-board award included in a collective-bargaining contract pursuant to a provision of the Railway Labor Act); Norfolk & Western R. Co. v. Nemitz, 404 U.S. 37 (1971) (railroad's employees stated federal claims when they sought to enforce assurances made by the railroad to secure Interstate Commerce Commission approval of a consolidation under a provision of the Interstate Commerce Act); Transamerica Mortgage Advisors, Inc. v. Lewis, 444 U.S. 11, 18-19 (1979) (permitting federal suit for rescission of a contract declared void by a provision of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940)).
In this regard, the Court noted, § 13(c) "demand[ed] `fair and equitable arrangements' as prerequisites for federal aid; it require[d] the approval of the Secretary of Labor for those arrangements; it specifie[d] five different varieties of protective provisions that must be included among the § 13(c) arrangements; and it expressly incorporate[d] the protective arrangements into the grant contract between the recipient and the Federal Government." Ibid. (quoting 49 U. S. C. § 1609(c) (1976 ed.)).
FEHBA's jurisdictional provision, 5 U. S. C. § 8912, opens the federal district-court door to civil actions "against the United States." See supra, at 686.
Cf. 29 U. S. C. § 1132(a)(3) (authorizing suit in federal court "by a participant, beneficiary, or fiduciary" of a pension or health plan governed by ERISA to gain redress for violations of "this subchapter or the terms of the plan").
 Jackson Transit, Empire points out, referred to decisions "demonstrat[ing] that...private parties in appropriate cases may sue in federal court to enforce contractual rights created by federal statutes." 457 U. S., at 22.
C We turn finally to the argument that Empire's reimbursement claim, even if it does not qualify as a "cause of action created by federal law," nevertheless arises under federal law for § 1331 purposes, because federal law is "a necessary element of the [carrier's] claim for relief."
* * * For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit is Affirmed 