When petitioner failed to pay his property taxes for several consecutive years, respondent Commissioner of State Lands in Arkansas, using the record address that petitioner provided to the State, sent petitioner a letter by certified mail, noting his tax delinquency and explaining that his property would be subject to public sale if the delinquent taxes and penalties were not paid.
Adopting petitioner's arguments, the Court holds today that "when mailed notice of a tax sale is returned unclaimed, the State must take additional reasonable steps to attempt to provide notice to the property owner before selling his property, if it is practicable to do so."
The Court concludes that it was practicable for Arkansas to take additional steps here—namely, notice by regular mail, posting notice on petitioner's door, and addressing mail to "`occupant.'"
The methods of notice employed by Arkansas were reasonably calculated to inform petitioner of proceedings affecting his property interest and thus satisfy the requirements of the Due Process Clause. The State mailed a notice by certified letter to the address provided by petitioner.
See also Mullane, supra, at 318; Tulsa Professional Collection Services, Inc. v. Pope, 485 U.S. 478, 490 (1988) ("We have repeatedly recognized that mail service is an inexpensive and efficient mechanism that is reasonably calculated to provide actual notice"); Mennonite Bd. of Missions v. Adams, 462 U.S. 791, 792, 798 (1983) (holding that "notice mailed to [the affected party's] last known available address" is sufficient where a State seeks to sell "real property on which payments of property taxes have been delinquent" (emphasis added)).
Similarly, in Covey, the Court concluded that the methods of notice used by the town—mailing, posting, and publishing—were not reasonably calculated to inform Covey of proceedings adverse to her property interests because local officials knew prior to sending notice that she was "without mental capacity to handle her affairs" and unable to comprehend the meaning of the notices. 351 U. S., at 144, 146.
The State cannot be charged to correct a problem of petitioner's own creation and of which it was not  aware. Even if the State had divined that petitioner was no longer at the record address, its publication of notice in a local newspaper would have sufficed because Mullane authorizes the use of publication when the record address is unknown.
Had the State used regular mail, petitioner would presumably argue that it should have sent notice by certified mail because it creates a paper trail. The Court itself recognizes the deficiencies of its proposed methods.
Nevertheless, the Court justifies its redrafting of Arkansas' notice statute  on the ground that "[its] approach[es] would increase the likelihood that the owner would be notified that he was about to lose his property...." Ibid. That, however, is not the test; indeed, we rejected such reasoning in Dusenbery. See 534 U. S., at 171 (rejecting the argument that "the FBI's notice was constitutionally flawed because it was `substantially less likely to bring home notice' than a feasible substitute" (some internal quotation marks omitted)).
Nor is the self-created conundrum in which petitioner finds himself a legitimate ground for imposing additional constitutional obligations on the State. The State's attempts to notify petitioner by certified  mail at the address that he provided and, additionally, by publishing notice in a local newspaper satisfy due process.
Accordingly, I would affirm the judgment of the Arkansas Supreme Court 