The comprehensive federal health insurance program at issue is created by a federal statute, the Federal Employees Health Benefits Act of 1959 (FEHBA), 5 U. S. C. § 8901 et seq.
II A I have explained the nature of the program and have set forth the terms of the agency/carrier contract in some detail  because, once understood, their federal nature brings this case well within the scope of the relevant federal jurisdictional statute, 28 U. S. C. § 1331, which provides jurisdiction for claims "arising under" federal law.
The lower federal courts have similarly found § 1331 jurisdiction over suits between private parties based on Federal Government contracts.
First, I may have made too absolute a statement in claiming that disputes arising under federal common law are (for jurisdictional purposes) cases "arising under" federal law.
In those cases the decision to apply federal common law was, therefore, a "choice-of-law issue" only, ante, at 691, and the Court consequently did not need to address the application of the Clearfield Trust doctrine to § 1331 "arising under" jurisdiction.
But I have found no case where a federal court concluded that federal common law governed a plaintiff's contract claim but nevertheless decided that the claim did not arise under federal law.
I have found several lower court cases (cited supra, at 707 and this page) where courts asserted § 1331 jurisdiction solely on the basis of federal common law.
And in Machinists v. Central Airlines, Inc., 372 U.S. 682, 693, n. 17 (1963), this Court cited the Clearfield Trust cases in finding § 1331 jurisdiction over the contract suit before it, noting that although those cases "did not involve federal jurisdiction as such," nevertheless "they are suggestive" on the issue of § 1331 jurisdiction over suits involving Federal Government contracts "since they hold federal law determinative of the merits of the claim."
See Clearfield Trust, 318 U. S., at 367 (applying federal common law because the "desirability of a uniform [federal] rule is plain"); see also Bank of America Nat.
After all, the cases there covered—contract claims against the Federal Government "founded on" the federal health insurance program—would also be governed by federal common law and (if my view is correct) would have fallen within the scope of § 1331.
 In sum, given Clearfield Trust, supra, and its progeny, there is every reason to believe that federal common law governs disputes concerning the agency/carrier contract.
See, e. g., cases cited supra, at 707; see also Clearfield Trust, supra, at 367 ("In absence of an applicable Act of Congress it is for the federal courts to fashion the governing rule of law according to their own standards").
See, e. g., Boyle, supra, at 508 ("[W]here the federal interest requires a uniform rule,  the entire body of state law applicable to the area conflicts and is replaced by federal rules"); Kimbell Foods, 440 U. S., at 728 ("Undoubtedly, federal programs that `by their nature are and must be uniform in character throughout the Nation' necessitate formulation of controlling federal rules"); Clearfield Trust, 318 U. S., at 367 (applying federal common law because "application of state law...would subject the rights and duties of the United States to exceptional uncertainty" and "would lead to great diversity in results by making identical transactions subject to the vagaries of the laws of the several states," and therefore "[t]he desirability of a uniform rule is plain").
That is because, as Clearfield Trust, Kimbell Foods, and other cases make clear, the decision to apply state law "as the federal rule of decision" is itself a matter of federal common law.
See, e. g., Kimbell Foods, supra, at 728, n. 21 ("`Whether state law is to be incorporated as a matter of federal common law...involves the...problem of the relationship of a particular issue to a going federal program'" (emphasis added)); Clearfield Trust, supra, at 367 ("In our choice of the applicable federal rule we have occasionally selected state law" (emphasis added)); see also R. Fallon, D. Meltzer, & D. Shapiro, Hart and Wechsler's The Federal Courts and the Federal System 700 (5th ed.
2003) ("[T]he current approach, as reflected in [Kimbell Foods, supra], suggests that...while under Clearfield federal common law governs, in general it will incorporate state law as the rule of decision"); 19 C. Wright, A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure § 4518, at 572-573 ("In recent years, the Supreme Court has put increasing emphasis on the notion that when determining what should be the content  of federal common law, the law of the forum state should be adopted absent some good reason to displace it" (emphasis added; citing Kimbell Foods, supra, and Clearfield Trust, supra)).
See, e. g., Kimbell Foods, supra, at 727 (deciding that "[f]ederal law therefore controls" the dispute but concluding that state law gives "content to this federal rule"); United States v. Little Lake Misere Land Co., 412 U. S., at 593-594 (The "first step of the Clearfield analysis" is to decide whether "`the courts of the United States may formulate a rule of decision,'" and the "next step in our analysis is to determine whether" the federal rule of decision should "`borro[w]' state law"); see also Friendly, In Praise of Erie—and of the New Federal Common Law, 39 N. Y. U. L. Rev.
Therefore, even if the Court is correct that state law applies to claims involving the interpretation of some provisions of this contract, the decision whether and when to apply state law should be made by the federal courts under federal common law.
With respect, I dissent 