I A The provision of law at the heart of this case is ยง 202(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act (CAA or Act), which provides that the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) "shall by regulation prescribe...standards applicable to the emission of any air pollutant from any class or classes of new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines, which in his judgment cause, or contribute to, air pollution which may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare."
See ante, at 534 ("We need not and do not reach the question whether on remand EPA must make an endangerment finding"); 68 Fed. Reg. 52929 (2003) ("[N]o Administrator has made a finding under any of the CAA's regulatory provisions that C02 meets the applicable statutory criteria for regulation").
The Administrator must exercise his judgment in one of three ways: (a) by concluding that the pollutant does cause, or contribute to, air pollution that en-dangers public welfare (in which case EPA is required to regulate); (b) by concluding that the pollutant does not cause, or contribute to, air pollution that endangers public welfare (in which case EPA is not required to regulate); or (c) by "provid[ing] some reasonable explanation as to why it cannot or will not exercise its discretion to determine whether" greenhouse gases endanger public welfare, ante, at 533 (in which case EPA is not required to regulate).
As described in detail below, the President has laid out a comprehensive approach to climate change that calls for near-term voluntary actions and incentives along with programs aimed at reducing scientific uncertainties and encouraging technological development so that the government may effectively and efficiently address the climate change issue over the long term..... 2"[E]stablishing [greenhouse gas] emission standards for U. S. motor vehicles at this time would...result in an inefficient, piecemeal approach to addressing the climate change issue.
"While the statute does condition the exercise of EPA's authority on its formation of a `judgment,'...that judgment must relate to whether an air pollutant `cause[s], or contribute[s] to, air pollution which may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare.'"
When the Administrator makes a judgment whether to regulate greenhouse gases, that judgment must relate to whether they are air pollutants that "cause, or contribute to, air pollution which may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare."
Attached to this option (on what basis is unclear) is an essay requirement: "If," the Court says, "the scientific uncertainty is so profound that it precludes EPA from making a reasoned judgment as to whether greenhouse gases contribute to global warming, EPA must say so."
II A Even before reaching its discussion of the word "judgment," the Court makes another significant error when it concludes that "ยง 202(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act authorizes EPA to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles in the event that it forms a `judgment' that such emissions contribute to climate change."
Since greenhouse gases come within the capacious phrase "any physical, chemical,...substance or matter which is emitted into or otherwise enters the ambient air," they must also be "air pollution agent[s] or combination[s] of such agents," and therefore meet the definition of "air pollutant[s]."
It is perfectly reasonable to view the definition of "air pollutant" in its entirety: An air pollutant can be "any physical, chemical,...substance or matter which is emitted into or otherwise enters the ambient air," but only if it retains the general characteristic of being an "air pollution agent or combination of such agents."
As the Court correctly points out, "all air-borne compounds of whatever stripe," ante, at 529, would qualify as "physical, chemical,...substance[s] or matter which [are] emitted into or otherwise ente[r] the ambient air," 42 U.S.C. ยง 7602(g).
Thus, in deciding whether it had authority to regulate, EPA had to determine whether the concentration of greenhouse gases assertedly responsible for "global climate change" qualifies as "air pollution."
In the end, EPA concluded that since "CAA authorization to regulate is generally based on a finding that an air pollutant causes or contributes to air pollution," 68 Fed. Reg. 52928, the concentrations of C02 and other greenhouse gases allegedly affecting the global climate are beyond the scope of CAA's authorization to regulate.
No matter how important the underlying policy issues at stake, this Court has no business substituting its own desired outcome for the reasoned judgment of the responsible agency 