Relaxing Article III standing requirements because asserted injuries are pressed by a State, however, has no basis in our jurisprudence, and support for any such "special solicitude" is conspicuously absent from the Court's opinion.
The Court's analysis hinges on Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230 (1907) — a case that did indeed draw a distinction between a State and private litigants, but solely with respect to available remedies.
Nothing about a State's ability to sue in that capacity dilutes the bedrock requirement of showing injury, causation, and redressability to satisfy Article III. A claim of parens patriae standing is distinct from an allegation of direct injury.
The Court asserts that Massachusetts is entitled to "special solicitude" due to its "quasi-sovereign interests," ante, at 520, but then applies our Article III standing test to the asserted injury of the Commonwealth's loss of coastal property.
On top of everything else, the Court overlooks the fact that our cases cast significant doubt on a State's standing to assert a quasi-sovereign interest — as opposed to a direct injury — against the Federal Government. As a general rule, we have held that while a State might assert a quasi-sovereign right as parens patriae "for the protection of its citizens, it is no part of its duty or power to enforce their rights in respect of their relations with the Federal Government. In that field it is the United States, and not the State, which represents them."
Given that one purpose of the standing requirement is `"to assure that concrete adverseness which sharpens the presentation of issues upon which the court so largely depends for illumination,'" ante, at 517 (quoting Baker v. Carr, 369 U.S. 186, 204 (1962)), it is ironic that the Court today adopts a new theory of Article III standing for States without the benefit of briefing or argument on the point.
2The point is that nothing in our cases (or Hart Wechsler) suggests that the prudential requirements for parens patriae standing, see Republic of Venezuela v. Philip Morris Inc., 287 F. 3d 192, 199, n. (CADC 2002) (observing that "parens patriae is merely a species of prudential standing" (internal quotation marks omitted)), can somehow substitute for, or alter the content of, the "irreducible constitutional minimum" requirements of injury in fact, causation, and redressability under Article III. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560 (1992).
If petitioners rely on loss of land as the Article III injury, however, they must ground the rest of the standing analysis in that specific injury.
Global warming is a phenomenon "harmful to humanity at large," 415 F. 3d, at 60 (Sentelle, J., dissenting in part and concurring in judgment), and the redress petitioners seek is focused no more on them than on the public generally — it is literally to change the atmosphere around the world. 2If petitioners' particularized injury is loss of coastal land, it is also that injury that must be "actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical," Defenders of Wildlife, supra, at 560 (internal quotation marks omitted), "real and immediate," Los Angeles v. Lyons, 461 U. S. 95, 102 (1983) (internal quotation marks omitted), and "certainly impending," Whitmore v. Arkansas, 495 U. S. 149, 158 (1990) (internal quotation marks omitted). 4As to "actual" injury, the Court observes that "global sea levels rose somewhere between 10 and 20 centimeters over the 20th century as a result of global warming" and that "[t]hese rising seas have already begun to swallow Massachusetts' coastal land."
III Petitioners' reliance on Massachusetts's loss of coastal land as their injury in fact for standing purposes creates insurmountable problems for them with respect to causation and redressability.
To establish standing, petitioners must show a causal connection between that specific injury and the lack of new motor vehicle greenhouse gas emission standards, and that the promulgation of such standards would likely redress that injury. 3As is often the case, the questions of causation and redressability overlap.
The Court ignores the complexities of global warming, and does so by now disregarding the "particularized" injury it relied on in step one, and using the dire nature of global warming itself as a bootstrap for finding causation and redressability.
In light of the bit-part domestic new motor vehicle greenhouse gas emissions have played in what petitioners describe as a 150-year global phenomenon, and the myriad additional factors bearing on petitioners' alleged injury — the loss of Massachusetts coastal land — the connection is far too speculative to establish causation.
To the tenuous link between petitioners' alleged injury and the indeterminate fractional domestic emissions at issue here, add the fact that petitioners cannot meaningfully predict what will come of the 80 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions that originate outside the United States. As the Court acknowledges, "developing countries such as China and India are poised to increase greenhouse gas emissions substantially over the next century," ante, at 525-526, so the domestic emissions at issue here may become an increasingly marginal portion of global emissions, and any decreases produced by petitioners' desired standards are likely to be overwhelmed many times over by emissions increases elsewhere in the world.
The Court contends that regulating domestic motor vehicle emissions will reduce carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, and therefore redress Massachusetts's injury.
But even if regulation does reduce emissions — to some indeterminate degree, given events elsewhere in the world — the Court never explains why that makes it likely that the injury in fact — the loss of land — will be redressed.
Whitmore, 495 U. S., at 158-159; see also Lujan v. National Wildlife Federation, 497 U. S. 871, 889 (1990) ( SCRAP "has never since been emulated by this Court"). In SCRAP, the Court based an environmental group's standing to challenge a rail-road freight rate surcharge on the group's allegation that increases in railroad rates would cause an increase in the use of nonrecyclable goods, resulting in the increased need for natural resources to produce such goods.
I respectfully dissent 