Count III Granite contends Section 1551 has displaced the common law tort remedy for vexatious delay asserted in Count III. As this Court explained in Evaluation Systems, Inc. v. Aetna Life Insurance Co., 555 F.Supp. 116, 120 (N.D.Ill.1982), the Illinois Appellate Courts are sharply divided on that issue: Without even addressing the preemptive implications of the statutory remedy, the Fifth District Appellate Court recognized  an independent tort action against insurers for breach of their implied duty of good faith and fair dealing.
In this Court's view Erie (as amplified in Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Electric Manufacturing Co., 313 U.S. 487, 496, 61 S.Ct. 1020, 1021, 85 L.Ed. 1477 (1941)) demands adherence to the Illinois "internal" choice of law rule that binds a state trial court to the decisions of the Appellate Court in its own district when the Appellate Courts diverge.
In this case, this Court sits in the same position as a Cook County Circuit Judge in the First Appellate District, for the Illinois venue statute (Ill. Rev.Stat. ch. 110, § 2-101) would have permitted Abbott to sue Granite (a foreign corporation) in Cook County. Consequently the position taken by the First Appellate District in Tobolt is dispositive here: Section 155 preempts any tort remedy for vexatious and unreasonable refusal to pay insurance proceeds.
As a preliminary matter, this Court is of course keenly mindful that Erie v. Tompkins may forcefully be argued to undercut the Supremacy Clause. It does reduce the independent judging function of federal courts (including the Supreme Court) in diversity cases — the obligation to decide "cases" and "controversies" — to the task of slavish adherence to state court doctrine.
Exactly the same idea was put succinctly in Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Electric Manufacturing Co., 313 U.S. 487, 496, 61 S.Ct. 1020, 1021, 85 L.Ed. 1477 (1941) (treating choice-of-law rules as substantive, not procedural, for Erie purposes): Otherwise, the accident of diversity of citizenship would constantly disturb equal administration of justice in coordinate state and federal courts sitting side by side.
That possibility of course exists (though neither Judge Marshall nor this Court is omniscient, so that his acting on that possibility poses a separate risk — if he is wrong in his prediction — that the federal litigant may get a different brand of justice than the Illinois courts would in fact deliver, not only at the trial court level commensurate with our own but at the Illinois Appellate  Court level as well!
It is at war with the reason Erie overturned a century of practice under Swift v. Tyson. That is why Judge Marshall is simply wrong in saying (Roberts, 568 F.Supp. at 539): [W]e think that Commercial Discount begins with an erroneous premise: that a  federal court sitting in diversity jurisdiction "must decide substantive questions in the same way that a state trial judge counterpart sitting at the same location would."
Conclusion Granite's motion to dismiss Counts III and IV is granted 