This appeal presents the question whether the district court properly dismissed plaintiff's case for lack of jurisdiction because of an insufficient amount in controversy under 28 U.S.C.
The doctrine of supplemental jurisdiction indicates that federal courts generally have discretion to retain or dismiss state law claims when the federal basis for an action drops away.
No. 101-650, Title III, § 310(a), which codified the doctrine of pendent jurisdiction developed by the Supreme Court in the case of United Mine Workers of America v. Gibbs, 383 U.S. 715, 86 S.Ct.
1130, 16 L.Ed.2d 218 (1966), and its progeny. Section 1367(a) provides that in any civil action of which the district courts have original jurisdiction, the district courts shall have supplemental jurisdiction over all other claims that are so related to claims in the action within such original jurisdiction that they form part of the same case or controversy under Article III of the United States Constitution.
Supplemental jurisdiction thus allows parties to append state law claims over which federal courts would otherwise lack jurisdiction, so long as they form part of the same case or controversy as the federal claims.
First, § 1367(a) is broadly phrased to provide for supplemental jurisdiction over claims appended to "any civil action" over which the court has "original jurisdiction."
The only possible interpretation of this language is that state law claims between diverse parties that do not, however, satisfy the jurisdictional amount requirements appended to diversity actions are cognizable under supplemental jurisdiction.
Recent case law has emphasized that trial courts enjoy wide latitude in determining whether or not to retain jurisdiction over state claims when all federal claims have been extinguished.
The doctrine of supplemental jurisdiction "thus is a doctrine of flexibility, designed to allow courts to deal with cases involving pendent claims in the manner that most sensibly accommodates a range of concerns and values."
There are several reasons why the supplemental jurisdiction model of discretion should apply when the amount in controversy falls below the fifty thousand dollar threshold, just as it does when a federal question or a diverse claim falls out of a case.
This point is illustrated by the fact that the grant of discretion to retain or dismiss residual state law claims in § 1367(c)(3) would apply in cases closely analogous to the one before us.
For example, § 1367(c)(3) provides on its own terms for supplemental jurisdiction over an inadequate amount in controversy if the claim that is dismissed is in excess of $50,000.
§ 1367(c) ("courts may ... exercise supplemental jurisdiction ... if ... the district court has dismissed all claims over which it has original jurisdiction").
In such a case the remaining smaller claims would have been "pendent" to the larger dismissed claim, and thus the court could choose to exercise jurisdiction over them.
Nothing in § 1367(b) precludes the use of a supplemental jurisdiction analysis in diversity cases when the issue is the amount in controversy rather than complete diversity.
Of course, if plaintiff has alleged only a small amount of damages or it is otherwise obvious that the jurisdictional amount under § 1332(a) cannot be satisfied, the court must dismiss the case outright for lack of jurisdiction.
In sum, we leave it to the sound judgment of the district court to decide whether to exercise jurisdiction over residual liquidated  claims under $50,000, so long as it was not a legal certainty from the outset that the plaintiff had no business being in federal court.
REVERSED AND REMANDED 