JON P. WILCOX, J. The petitioners, James and Katherine Schwab and Dorice McCormick (petitioners), seek review of a decision affirming the circuit court's dismissal of their declaratory judgment action requesting an easement by necessity or by implication for both ingress and egress and utilities over the properties owned by the respondents in order to gain access to their landlocked parcels located in Door County. The circuit court, as affirmed by the court of appeals, concluded that the historical circumstances in this case do not fit the typical situation from which ways of necessity are implied and that even if they did, the easement would not have survived because it was not recorded. 2.
On appeal, the petitioners claim they are entitled to an easement by necessity or by implication over the respondents' properties; or in the alternative, they seek an expansion of the common law in this state to recognize an easement by necessity where property is landlocked due to geographical barriers and due to the actions of the common owner and grantor, in this case the United States. We conclude that the petitioners have failed to establish entitlement to an easement by implication or by necessity either because of actions by the federal government or by geographical barriers.
The easement would include the perpetual right to travel, including the right for ingress, egress and for public utilities, over the now private road, which stretches over 15 of the respondents' parcels to the Lenz property, as well as the right to build a road over the Lenz and Timmons properties up to the McCormick property.
The court further stated that even if it found an implied retention of an easement over Lot 4 by the United States as of 1854, the respondents did not have actual or constructive notice of the existence of an easement and therefore, they took title to the land relieved of the burden or charge of the easement.
The petitioners claim an easement by implication or by necessity over the respondents' properties.
While a landlocked parcel may satisfy the necessity element, it is apparent from the amended complaint that the private road the petitioners seek to extend does not and has never extended to the petitioners' properties.
An easement of necessity "arises where an owner severs a landlocked portion of his [or her] property by conveying such parcel to another."
To establish an easement by necessity, a party must show common ownership of the two parcels prior to severance of the landlocked parcel, Ruchti v. Monroe, 83 Wis. 2d 551, 556, 266 N.W.2d 309 (1978), and that the owner of the now landlocked parcel cannot access a public roadway from his or her own property, Ludke, 87 Wis. 2d at 230.
A party may only avail himself or herself of an easement by necessity when the common owner severs a landlocked portion of the property and the owner of the landlocked portion cannot access a public roadway.
Because the United States never severed a landlocked portion of its property that was inaccessible from a public roadway, the petitioners have failed to establish the elements for an easement by necessity. 21.
Certainly it may be more convenient for the petitioners to seek an extension of the private road to their parcels rather than travel across the property above the bluff and navigate the bluff, but that in itself does not create the right to an easement by necessity.
The petitioners suggest that this court set forth a "reasonable use" test that balances the equities by weighing the competing interests of the need and benefit to allow access by easement to develop otherwise useless land versus the detriment such a burden may place on other property to use an existing road.
The petitioners have not alleged that the respondents knew or had actual or constructive notice that the United States created a way of necessity over their parcels by its 1854 conveyance.
In sum, we conclude that the petitioners have failed to establish entitlement to an easement by implication or by necessity either because of actions by the United States or by geographical barriers.
By the Court.—The decision of the court of appeals is affirmed 