At issue on this appeal from a suit brought to recover "double indemnity" insurance benefits is the propriety of a grant of summary judgment in favor of J.C. Penney Insurance Company, Guardsman Life Insurance Company and Old Republic Life Insurance Company (appellees) against the Valley National Bank of Arizona, as personal representative of the estate of Sharon G. Seay (appellant).
Seay's   Guardsman policy is similar in its requirement that accidental death benefits will be paid if the insured's death is the result of accidental bodily injury independent of other causes.
Under the summary judgment disposition then, our seminal inquiry is: Taking the evidence and inferences presented in a light most favorable to appellant, does a genuine issue of material fact exist as to whether Seay's death was accidental?
Both sides agree, and the law is well established, that appellant has the burden of proving that death resulted from accidental rather than natural causes, within the coverage of and as defined by the clauses of the insurance policies.
As was stated in New York Life Insurance Co. v. Greber, 55 Ariz. 261, 100 P.2d 987 (1940): When double indemnity is claimed for an accidental death under a policy like that involved herein, it is incumbent upon the beneficiary to establish affirmatively and by a reasonable preponderance of the evidence that the death of the insured resulted from the specific cause of death set forth in the double indemnity clause.
Rather, they argue that the trial court correctly granted summary judgment since appellant failed to present any evidence whatsoever that Seay's death resulted from accidental rather than natural causes.
It is true that the Guardsman policy requires evidence of visible contusions or wounds on the exterior of the body, but we hold that this provision is non-exclusive, since it does not preclude proof of accidental death by other means.
Appellant, in support of its position that the evidence here clearly raises an inference of accidental death, refers us to cases from other states where circumstantial evidence was found to support a jury verdict of death by accidental means.
The appeals court first noted that: The ultimate fact which plaintiff had the burden of proving was the accidental death of Wagner M. Robinson, Jr. Because his body has never been found, such proof was necessarily limited to circumstantial evidence.
The court went on to hold: [W]e find strong circumstances pointing either toward death by accident in the technical manner viewed by the trial court or by accidental death due to unavoidable exposure to the elements.
CONTRERAS, P.J., and FROEB, J., concur 