In 1972, Tavenner sold the ranch, including the lakeshore property, to Ward Paper Box Co. The ranch has since been transferred to Castle Mountain Ranch, Inc. Louis Ward is the principal shareholder or owner in both corporations and was the primary actor in the purchase of the ranch, including the cabin sites around Rock Creek Lake. The respondents and cross-appellants here (plaintiffs in the District Court) are owners of summer homes and cabins around the lake.
They and their predecessors, acting individually, at various times since 1922, built and improved summer homes, some quite substantial, on the Rock Creek Lake front, on real property owned by Tavenner, and with the consent and permission of Tavenner. The issue for us to decide, as in the District Court, is the nature and extent of any agreement between the cabin owners and Tavenner, individually or collectively, express or implied, for termination of the permission.
On October 13, 1972, counsel for Ward mailed a letter to all cabin owners advising that the impending transfer of ranch property would be consummated on December 1, 1972, and which letter included the following paragraph:     "We are writing on behalf of Ward Paper Box Company to advise you of this impending transfer and also to advise you that the purchaser has examined your license agreement and will construe it according to its literal terms.
The transfer of the ranch property occurred according to schedule and on July 11, 1973, the new owners sent each of the cabin owners a notice of termination of their licenses.
The District Court decree violates the statute of frauds and the parol evidence rule, and disregards waiver by the cabin owners in signing the license agreements. 4.
In essence, those findings include: that Tavenner did not intend to cancel the cabin site arrangements while it owned the ranch; that although there were no express assurances, Robert Tavenner allowed cabin improvements, assuring the cabin owners from time to time that the license agreements were a "formality" and there was to be no change in the way the cabins were held by the cabin owners; that while the Tavenner corporation was involved in selling the ranch, it permitted Martin Olsen and James Blodgett to purchase homes from previous owners without informing the new purchasers of the impending sale, merely submitting the usual license agreement to the new owners for execution; that by allowing the cabin owners to make improvements and to assume a long-term occupancy, Tavenner misled the cabin owners into believing they did not have to fear the loss of their investment and so allowed them to act to their detriment; that Louis Ward was advised Tavenner would not sell the ranch if Ward insisted on the cancellation of the license agreements; that Ward agreed to take the property although he knew, or through the reasonable exercise of inquiry, should have known, that the cabin owners hoped for a long-term occupancy and had made substantial improvements based upon the implied  assurances of Tavenner; and, that such conduct amounted to constructive fraud against the cabin owners.
It is equally clear that Tavenner engaged in a course of conduct, as we have set forth in our statement of the facts, that gave the cabin owners an implied assurance of a somewhat permanent tenure sufficient that they made substantial investments in erecting and maintaining the cabins openly recognized by Tavenner. From our review of the record, it is abundantly clear to us that while Tavenner, through the license agreements, wanted to be in position to terminate the permission for any cabin owner it might find undesirable, it was never the intention of Tavenner, in procuring the agreements or in permitting the improvements, to use the license agreements for a wholesale termination of every cabin owner's permission in one clatter.
The cabin owners point to the fact that Ward made no inquiry of the cabin owners with respect to their rights, and that the physical examination of the premises by Ward showed possession of the lake property by persons other than the record holder in the form of substantial permanent improvements, which put Ward on notice of something more than a 30-day terminable interest in the possession of the lands.
The District Court further concluded that the conduct of the predecessor landowners created a constructive trust in the improvements placed on the property by the cabin owners and that the trust was imposed upon Ward, as the landowners' successor in interest, as an equitable lien on the property in favor of the cabin owners.
The court determined, as an exercise of equity, that the equitable lien could be satisfied by a continued use by the cabin owners for a reasonable period of time or by compensation and money for the value of the structures from Ward. The evidence supports these conclusions sitting in equity, and we find the District Court properly so concluded.
In its judgment and decree, the District Court provided that in lieu of cash payment from Ward, the cabin owners may continue to occupy their particular cabin sites with the right of ingress and egress until December 31, 1987, at which time the licenses to occupy should terminate and if the improvements were not removed as set forth in the license agreements, the improvements should become the property of Ward without payment.
Waiver is a voluntary relinquishment of a known right (Kelly v. Lovejoy (1977), 172 Mont. 516, 565 P.2d 321) and since the District Court concluded that the license agreements were not executed with the intention that the cabin owners abandoned their permissive rights in favor of a 30-day cancellation, a finding of waiver in the execution of the license agreements would be inconsistent with the court's conclusion that the license agreements did not reflect the true intention of the parties at the time.
The judgment of the District Court granted the cabin owners a period of six months from the date of judgment in which to notify Ward in writing that the cabin owners were exercising their option to receive payment for the cabin structures and fixtures.
Except as so modified, we deny the cross-appeal, and affirm the judgment and decree of the District Court, and remand the cause to the District Court for further proceedings therein in accordance with its judgment and decree 