On May 5, 1998, Griffis filed the Alabama judgment in Ramsey County District Court in order to enforce its terms against Luban. Luban moved to vacate the judgment on the basis that the Alabama court lacked personal jurisdiction over her.
On Luban's appeal, the court of appeals affirmed, ruling that the district court did not err in its determination that the Alabama court properly exercised personal jurisdiction over Luban. Griffis v. Luban, 633 N.W.2d 548, 553 (Minn.App.2001).
The court of appeals concluded that Luban was subject to the Alabama court's jurisdiction because she made potentially defamatory statements that were being read in Alabama and had knowledge of the effect of those statements in Alabama. Id. Luban sought and was granted review in this court.
The question presented is whether the Ramsey County District Court correctly determined that the Alabama district court had personal jurisdiction over Luban so that the Alabama judgment is entitled to full faith and credit in the Minnesota courts.
Griffis does not contend that the Alabama courts could exercise general jurisdiction over Luban. Where the nonresident defendant's contacts with the forum state are not sufficient for general jurisdiction, the defendant may nonetheless be subject to "specific" jurisdiction—that is, jurisdiction over a claim that allegedly arose out of the defendant's contacts with the forum.
In asserting that the Alabama district court had personal jurisdiction over Luban, Griffis relies in particular, as did the courts below, on Calder v. Jones, 465 U.S. 783, 104 S.Ct. 1482, 79 L.Ed.2d 804 (1984).
In Calder the Supreme Court approved a test that had been employed by the California courts in that case for determining personal jurisdiction over nonresident defendants who allegedly committed an intentional tort outside the forum.
Id. The customers to whom the letters were sent were all located outside of Iowa. Id. The    court stated that while the defendant's statements to the non-Iowa customers were intended to promote the defendant's product to the detriment of the plaintiff's and therefore might have an adverse effect on the Iowa plaintiff, this effect alone was not sufficient to establish jurisdiction.
Id. Within the spectrum of differing circuit court interpretations of Calder, we believe the most cogent analysis of the Calder effects test is that of the Third Circuit in Imo Industries. In Imo Industries, the circuit court expressed concern over the possible breadth of Calder, asking whether under Calder a court can automatically infer that an out-of-state defendant can anticipate being haled into the forum from the fact that the defendant knew that plaintiff resided in the forum. 155 F.3d at 262-63.
The court explained that in Calder the Supreme Court relied on three principal findings in reaching its conclusion that the California court properly exercised jurisdiction over the nonresident defendants, and the circuit court incorporated those findings into a three-prong analysis for application of the Calder effects test. 155 F.3d at 261.
Griffis argues that Luban directed the defamation at the Alabama forum because she targeted her messages at Griffis, whom she knew to be an Alabama resident, and because Luban knew that messages posted on the sci.archaeology newsgroup could be read anywhere in the world and in fact were read by Griffis in Alabama. Griffis further contends that Luban's defamatory statements had "deleterious effects" on Griffis's consulting business and her professional reputation in Alabama. The district court agreed with Griffis, stating that Luban "never denied that she knew Plaintiff was located in Alabama, and that her allegedly defamatory messages would have an `effect' on Plaintiff's professional career in Alabama." While the record supports the conclusion that Luban's statements were intentionally directed at Griffis, whom she knew to be an Alabama resident, we conclude that the evidence does not demonstrate that Luban's statements were "expressly aimed" at the state of Alabama. The parties agree that Luban published the allegedly defamatory statements on an internet newsgroup accessible to the public, but nothing in the record indicates that the statements were targeted at the state of Alabama or at an Alabama audience beyond Griffis herself.
Thus nothing in the factual record before us indicates that Luban's messages were read by any other person in Alabama, or by anyone in the academic community at the University of Alabama. Griffis also relies on a letter her attorney wrote to Luban threatening litigation to establish that Luban knew her postings would harm Griffis's consulting business in Alabama. But the letter states only that Luban's statements were "threatening" Griffis's business and did not specify any details about the business.
Because Griffis does not claim any other basis on which the Alabama court could properly extend personal jurisdiction over Luban, the judgment of the Alabama court is not entitled to full faith and credit in Minnesota. The decisions of the courts below enforcing the Alabama judgment are therefore reversed, and the Alabama judgment filed in Ramsey County District Court on May 5, 1998, under the Uniform Enforcement of Foreign Judgments Acts, Minn.Stat. 548.27, and the Ramsey County District Court judgment entered on December 21, 2000, based on the Alabama judgment, are vacated.
GILBERT, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of this case 