First, it contends that the decision in Bichler should not be given collateral estoppel effect because (1) the cases do not raise identical issues, (2) there are indications that the Bichler verdict was based on jury compromise, (3) there are adjudications inconsistent with Bichler on each of the issues involved and (4) the Bichler decision is based on an unresolved and novel application of the law of concerted action not expressly adopted in New York. Second, Lilly asserts that if we find its proof of jury compromise in Bichler insufficient as it now exists to defeat the application of collateral estoppel, it should be allowed to depose two named jurors from the Bichler jury to demonstrate further its contention.
Applying these rules, we hold that collateral estoppel effect should be denied for the Bichler jury's finding on concerted action but that Lilly should be precluded from relitigating the five remaining issues relevant to this action and decided adversely to it in that trial (see, n 2, at p 455, supra).
Because Lilly did not challenge the appropriateness of the concerted action theory in Bichler, it was not actually litigated and there is no identity between that issue in Bichler and here.
The plaintiff in Bichler, the first of the 15 related cases chosen to be tried, sought to establish Lilly's negligence in testing and marketing DES. The issues Lilly will be precluded from relitigating in this case relate solely to the facts underlying its negligence in testing, questions found against it by the Bichler jury and questions which are also involved in this case.
The issue of proximate cause has been specifically deleted from the Bichler interrogatories by plaintiff's motion    and Lilly will have the opportunity to demonstrate that plaintiff's injuries were not caused by her mother's ingestion of DES due to minor differences between the plaintiffs or the circumstances surrounding their mothers' ingestion of DES. Thus, the appeal fits the example described by Professors James and Hazard of an instance in which there are several similar cases and the first tried is "roughly typical" of the rest.
Although indications of jury compromise is one factor properly to be considered in determining whether a party against whom collateral estoppel is sought had a full and fair opportunity to litigate the issues in the prior determination (see, Koch v Consolidated Edison Co., 62 N.Y.2d 548, 555, n 4, supra, quoting Schwartz v Public Administrator, 24 N.Y.2d 65, 72, supra), the evidence offered to defeat application of the doctrine in this case is insufficient.
Those cited include generally cases in which the jury returned a verdict for Lilly on a failure to warn theory  and    others in which the court granted Lilly judgment either because concerted action was an inappropriate legal theory for DES litigation or because the evidence was insufficient to raise a factual issue on concerted action.
Finally, we cannot find that the trial court abused its discretion as a matter of law in severing plaintiff's action against Lilly from her action against the other defendants, particularly in light of the obvious prejudice the other defendants would suffer if they were forced to litigate the action with Lilly despite our conclusion that it is precluded from relitigating the findings of negligence as made in Bichler. Accordingly, the order of the Appellate Division should be modified by denying plaintiff summary judgment as to the collateral estoppel effect of the Bichler jury's finding that defendant Lilly and other drug manufacturers acted in concert in testing and marketing DES for use in treating accidents in pregnancy (interrogatory No. 7) and, as so modified, the order should be affirmed.
Question certified answered in the negative 