Today the Court holds that the New Jersey Constitution requires that owners of privately-owned-and-operated shopping malls who invite the public onto their property for commercial purposes must allow the public free access to that property to engage in unrestricted expressional activities, including, through the distribution of leaflets and petitions to shoppers, the promotion of various political or social views.
To reach that conclusion, the majority distorts the test announced in State v. Schmid, 84 N.J. 535, 563 (1980); dismisses completely the rights of private-property owners to regulate and control the use of their own property; disregards the trial court's findings of fact, developed after an extensive eleven-day trial; and instead relies primarily on old theories that the United States Supreme Court and most other state courts long ago discarded.
I   The United States Supreme Court has held that the First Amendment allows the owners of private shopping malls to bar the distribution of political literature on mall property.
The vast majority of states do not require that privately-owned shopping malls grant free access for expressional activity on their property.
This standard must take into account (1) the nature, purposes, and primary use of such private property, generally, its "normal" use, (2) the extent and nature of the public's invitation to use that property, and (3) the purpose of the expressional activity undertaken upon such property in relation to both the private and public use of the property.
Using a test essentially the same as Schmid, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court established, in Commonwealth v. Tate, 432 A.2d 1382 (1981), "a limiting rationale for applying [the Pennsylvania] constitution's rights of speech and assembly to property private in name but used as a forum for public debate."
Yet when the court reviewed a subsequent case concerning an alleged constitutional right of access to a shopping mall, it recognized that unlike a university, the shopping mall was not a public forum for political expression.
Ibid. In respect of the second Schmid factor, the extent and nature of the public's invitation to use the private property, the trial court stated: From the credible evidence offered by the defendants, that is, the testimony of mall managers, designers and planners, I find that the public's invitation to each of the defendant malls is for the purpose of the owners' and tenants' business and does not extend to the activities of leafletting or the distribution of literature.
Despite the trial court's findings, the majority baldly asserts that the mall owners issued an invitation to the public to use their private property "to do what they please" and granted "practically unlimited permitted public uses * * * on their property."
The primary use of a shopping mall is shopping, an obvious fact that the majority fails to understand.
The third prong of the Schmid analysis directs a court to consider the "purpose of the expressional activity undertaken upon such property in relation to both the private and public use of the property". 84 N.J. at 563.
The trial court found that the "plaintiffs have not met their burden of proving that their activities are not discordant with both the public and private uses to which these shopping malls are dedicated." 266 N.J. Super. at 204.
Although the majority recognizes the difficulty in preparing regulations and procedures concerning leafletting in the malls, ante at ___ (slip op. at 74) (granting sixty day stay), they provide no standards for the mall owners to use in resolving those problems.
III   To circumvent the detailed and meticulous findings of the trial court, the majority departs from the Schmid test and argues that shopping malls are the "functional equivalent" of the traditional downtown business districts or town squares.
The Logan Valley Court, in turn, based its holding on Marsh v. Alabama, 326 U.S. 501, 66 S. Ct. 276, 90 L. Ed. 265 (1946), and found an analogy between the sidewalks and parking areas of a shopping mall and the company town in Marsh. As we noted in Schmid, supra, 84 N.J. at 550, Lloyd Corp. repudiated Logan Valley. Nevertheless, the majority, like the Logan Valley Court, contends that plaintiffs here should have access to the shopping malls just as the Court gave the petitioner in Marsh access to the business district.
The United States Supreme Court adopted that position in Lloyd Corp., effectively rejecting Logan Valley's "functional equivalent" rationale. 407 U.S. at 569, 92 S. Ct. at 2229, 33 L. Ed. 2d at 143; see also Fiesta Mall, supra, 767 P.2d 719 (rejecting functional equivalent argument).
Nothing in this case forces this Court to subserve the rights of private-property owners to the free speech rights of the public as we were compelled to do in Shack. IV The majority states, "What is involved in this case is the right of every person and of every group to make their views known, however popular or unpopular they may be, and the right of the public to hear them and learn from them."
The majority's decision today guarantees the right to a forum for free expression not only on public property, or on private property in the limited circumstances as permitted under Schmid, but on all private property -- not just shopping malls -- where a captive audience can readily be found.
Ibid. Yet the facts adduced at trial, the descriptions of each of these malls and the activities that did and did not take place in them, even the trade's determination of what constitutes a regional mall, ante at ___ (slip op. at 12-13), reveal vast differences among these properties.
The private property owner and ultimately the consumer, the forgotten person in the majority opinion, will have to pay the increased costs that result from the expanded security and other expenses associated with the public's free access to the mall for expressional activities.
It makes neither good sense nor good law, and for those reasons, I respectfully dissent 