The question in this case is whether the defendant regional and community shopping centers must permit leafletting on societal issues.
Our ruling is limited to leafletting at such centers, and it applies nowhere else.See footnote 1 It is based on our citizens' right of free speech embodied in our State Constitution. N.J. Const. art.
In Schmid we ruled that our State Constitution conferred on our citizens an affirmative right of free speech that was protected not only from governmental restraint -- the extent of First Amendment protection -- but from the restraint of private property owners as well.
That is to say, they determine whether, taken together, the normal uses of the property, the extent of the public's invitation, and the purpose of free speech in relation to the property's use result in a suitability for free speech on the property that on balance, is sufficiently compelling to warrant limiting the private property owner's right to exclude it; a suitability so compelling as to be constitutionally required.
Applying Schmid, we find the existence of the constitutional obligation to allow free speech at these regional and community shopping centers clear.
We therefore find the existence of a constitutional obligation to permit the leafletting plaintiff seeks at these regional and community shopping centers; we find that the balance of factors clearly predominates in favor of that obligation; its denial in this case is unreasonably restrictive and oppressive of free speech: were it extended to all regional and community shopping centers, it would block a channel of free speech that could reach hundreds of thousands of people, carrying societal messages that are at its very core.
We hold that Schmid requires that the free speech sought by the plaintiff -- the non-commercial leafletting and its normal accompanying speech (without megaphone, soapbox, speeches, or demonstrations) -- be permitted by defendants subject to such reasonable rules and regulations as may be imposed by them.
Given this limited free speech right -- leafletting, given the centers' broad power to regulate it, and given experience elsewhere, we are confident that it is consonant with the commercial purposes of the centers and the varied purposes of their shoppers and non-shoppers.
We hope they recognize the legitimacy of the constitutional concern that in the process of creating new downtown business districts, they will have seriously diminished the value of free speech if it can be shut off at their centers.
The trial court entered judgment in favor of defendants, denying all relief, on the ground that defendants' property was dedicated solely to commercial uses inconsistent with political speech; that the invitation to the general public was limited to such use; and that, therefore, under our ruling in State v. Schmid, 84 N.J. 535 (1980), no State constitutional right of free speech on defendants' premises existed.
Given that judgment, the trial court found it unnecessary to rule on defendants' contention that the relief sought by plaintiff, if granted, would constitute a taking of their property without just compensation, would deprive them of their property without due process of law, and would abridge their freedom of speech by forcing them to provide a forum for the speech of others, all in violation of the Federal and State Constitutions. The Appellate Division affirmed, relying substantially on the trial court's findings and opinion. 266 N.J. Super. 159 (1993).
E.g., James M. McCauley, Comment, Transforming the Privately Owned Shopping Center into a Public Forum: PruneYard Shopping Center v. Robins, 15 U. Rich. L. Rev. 699, 721 (1981) ("[P]rivately-owned shopping centers are supplanting those traditional public business districts where free speech once flourished.
In Marsh, the United States Supreme Court held that the First Amendment's guarantee of free speech was violated when the private owners of a company town prevented distribution of literature in its downtown business district.
The question whether citizens may exercise a right of free speech at privately-owned shopping centers without permission of the owners has been litigated extensively.
The first time the question came before the Supreme Court, the Court upheld the right of free speech at shopping centers.
Clearly relying on Marsh, the majority in Logan Valley ruled that shopping centers are the functional equivalent of downtown business districts and that the private owners could therefore not interfere with the exercise of the right of free speech.
Logan Valley was thereafter "limited" by Lloyd Corp. v. Tanner, 407 U.S. 551, 92 S. Ct. 2219, 33 L. Ed. 2d 131 (1972), which held that war protesters had no right of free speech at shopping centers.
The Court distinguished Logan Valley, confining it to the situation in which the speech was related to shopping center activities -- a labor dispute involving one of the center's tenants -- and in which no alternative was available for the expression of views, id. at 563, 92 S. Ct. at 2226, 33 L. Ed. 2d at 139-40 -- such as the public sidewalks that surrounded the center in Lloyd.See footnote 10 The Court in Hudgens v. NLRB, 424 U.S. 507, 517-18, 96 S. Ct. 1029, 1035-36, 47 L. Ed. 2d 196, 205-06 (1976), reviewing both Logan Valley and Lloyd, concluded not only that the reasoning of the latter amounted to a total rejection of the former, but that even the limited right of free speech (namely, that relating to shopping center activities) approved in Lloyd did not exist.
It is now clear that the Federal Constitution affords no general right to free speech in privately-owned shopping centers, and most State courts facing the issue have ruled the same way when State constitutional rights have been asserted.
Of those five, only California has held that its free speech clause protects citizens from private action as well as state action and grants issue-oriented free speech rights at a regional shopping center.
Colorado relied on its constitution's free speech provision to hold that political activists had a constitutional right to distribute literature at a privately-owned mall.
Pennsylvania's position on the free speech/state action issue appeared, at one time, to accord with ours in Schmid. In Commonwealth v. Tate, 432 A.2d 1382 (1981), the Pennsylvania Supreme Court held that the state constitution's free speech provision prohibited a private university from preventing people from leafletting outside a university building in which a public symposium was being held.
In Western Pennsylvania Socialist Workers 1982 Campaign, supra, 515 A.2d 1331, however, the same court expressly stated that the state's free speech clause provided protection only from state action, id. at 1335, and held that there is no constitutional right to collect signatures in a privately-owned shopping mall.
From these cases we learn that the Federal Constitution does not prevent private owners from prohibiting free speech leafletting at their shopping centers because the owners' conduct does not amount to "state action"; that practically every state, when its constitutional free speech provisions have been asserted, has ruled the same way, again on the basis of a legal conclusion that state action was required.
We are not out-of-step, however, for as detailed above, every state that has found certain of its constitutional free-speech related provisions effective regardless of "state action" has ruled that shopping center owners cannot prohibit that free speech.
In New Jersey, we have once before discussed the application of our State constitutional right of free speech to private conduct.
We thus held that Article I, paragraph 6 of our State Constitution granted substantive free speech rights, and that unlike the First Amendment, those rights were not limited to protection from government interference.
Precedent, text, structure, and history all compel the conclusion that the New Jersey Constitution's right of free speech is broader than the right against governmental abridgement of speech found in the First Amendment. Our holding in Schmid relied on all of these factors, id. at 557-60, presaging the criteria of later cases used to determine whether the scope of state constitutional provisions exceeded those of cognate federal provisions.
We reach the same conclusion we did in Schmid: the State right of free speech is protected not only from abridgement by government, but also from unreasonably restrictive and oppressive conduct by private entities.
The balancing of the three factors and the ultimate balance between expressional rights and private property rights was a matter of concern in Justice Schreiber's concurrence in Schmid. Noting uncertainty about whether the majority based its constitutional holding on "a balancing process" or on a "dedication to the public of its property," id. at 576 & n.1, the concurrence concluded that the dedication of private property "for a public use involving public discussion," id. at 580, was essential to justify our holding.
We reaffirm our holding in Schmid. The test to determine the existence of the constitutional obligation is multi-faceted; the outcome depends on a consideration of all three factors of the standard and ultimately on a balancing between the protections to be accorded the rights of private property owners and the free speech rights of individuals to leaflet on their property.
We now examine the standard and determine the resulting balance in this case between free speech and private property rights.
The almost limitless public use of defendants' property, its inclusion of numerous expressive uses, its total transformation of private property to the mirror image of a downtown business district and beyond that, a replica of the community itself, gives rise to an implied invitation of constitutional dimensions that cannot be obliterated by defendants' attempted denial of that invitation, an implied invitation that includes leafletting on controversial issues.
The third factor, the relationship between "the purpose of the expressional activity...to both the private and public use of the property," Schmid, supra, 84 N.J. at 563, examines the compatibility of the free speech sought to be exercised with the uses of the property.
The downtown business districts at one time thrived: no one has ever contended that free speech and leafletting hurt them.
These centers have full power to minimize whatever slight discordance might otherwise exist; full power to adopt rules and regulations concerning the time, place, and manner of such leafletting, regulations that will assure beyond question that the leafletting does not interfere with the shopping center's business while at the same time preserving the effectiveness of plaintiff's exercise of their constitutional right.
We find that each of the elements of the standard in Schmid, the use, the invitation, and the suitability of free speech at the centers, supports the existence of a constitutional free speech right in the plaintiff and a corresponding obligation in the defendants.
"Taken together, these...relevant considerations" of the "multi-faceted" standard set forth in Schmid lead to the conclusion that these regional and community shopping centers must "be required to permit, subject to suitable restrictions, the reasonable exercise by individuals of the constitutional freedoms of speech and assembly," here the leafletting sought by plaintiff.
The private property owners in this case, the operators of regional and community malls, have intentionally transformed their property into a public square or market, a public gathering place, a downtown business district, a community; they have told this public in every way possible that the property is theirs, to come to, to visit, to do what they please, and hopefully to shop and spend; they have done so in many ways, but mostly through the practically unlimited permitted public uses found and encouraged on their property.
The vindication of our State's constitutional free speech right in this case falls at least as clearly within the standard of Schmid as did the facts in that case.
We foresee no likely change in that essential nature that would affect the elements of the standard or the ultimate balance between free speech and property rights.
The principle of that case (and Logan) is that the constitutional right of free speech cannot be determined by title to property alone.
We do not believe that those who adopted a constitutional provision granting a right of free speech wanted it to diminish in importance as society changed, to be dependent on the unrelated accidents of economic transformation, or to be silenced because of a new way of doing business.
Two of the defendants contend that granting plaintiff the constitutional right of free speech deprives them of their property without due process of law, takes their property without just compensation, and infringes on their right of free speech.
We would add to the United States Supreme Court's response to the private property owners' free speech concerns (concerns underlined in Justice Powell's concurrence in PruneYard, supra, 447 U.S. at 96-101, 100 S. Ct. at 2048-51, 64 L. Ed. 2d at 761-65) that private property owners who have so transformed the life of society for their profit (and in the process, so diminished its free speech) must be held to have relinquished a part of their right of free speech.
Our Constitution guarantees the right of free speech at their premises with all of its inevitable consequences; and while it also guarantees fair compensation if property is taken, there is no guarantee of compensation for the exercise of constitutional rights that does not result in even the slightest impact on business or profits.
We emphasize, however, that these differences in the degree of public activity are not material and will not exempt a regional mall from the obligation to permit free speech activity.
No highway strip mall, no football stadium, no theater, no single huge suburban store, no stand-alone use, and no small to medium shopping center sufficiently satisfies the standard of Schmid to warrant the constitutional extension of free speech to those premises, and we so hold.
We do not, and cannot, however, foreclose the possibility that in some case with unusual circumstances the free speech right may exist elsewhere, most notably at a shopping center that is neither regional nor community but that has clearly and consistently invited or permitted issue-oriented groups, candidates, and others, to leaflet.
We affirmatively rule that our State Constitution does not confer free speech rights at regional and community shopping centers that go beyond such speech.
In addition to some doubt -- the issue is really not before us -- whether our constitutional provision was intended to cover commercial speech in any way at all, we find this limitation the result of our application of the elements and standard in Schmid. Commercial free speech at regional and community shopping centers is fundamentally so discordant with the purposes and uses of those centers as to disqualify it from constitutional protection.
It is obviously a most serious intrusion on the property interests of these owners; it does not satisfy the standard of Schmid; it does not have State constitutional protection.See footnote 17 As for the manner of speech, our ruling is confined to leafletting and associated free speech: the speech that normally and necessarily accompanies leafletting.
We believe that this constitutional free speech right, thus limited, will perform the intended role of assuring that the free speech of New Jersey's citizens can be heard, can be effective, and can reach at least as many people as it used to before the downtown business districts were transported to the malls.
The judgment of the Appellate Division is reversed; judgment is hereby entered, effective sixty days from the date of this decision, in favor of plaintiff declaring it has a right to leaflet on defendants' premises as described above; and judgment is entered against defendants Riverside Square Mall and The Mall at Short Hills declaring that the grant of free speech rights to plaintiff does not deprive them of the rights they have asserted under both the Federal and State Constitutions 