In the spring of 1977, the trial court heard testimony concerning the quality and quantity of the land in each block, but excluded testimony on property values and other evidence supporting plaintiffs' proposed partition.
In an unpublished opinion dated March 23, 1979, this Court set aside the trial court's decision and remanded with instructions that the trial court take evidence on the appurtenant property rights and allow plaintiffs to present evidence on the equities of abolishing their cattle business, with due consideration to be given to property values and the plaintiffs' theory of partition.
On remand, the trial court took evidence on the value of the land and other matters as directed by this Court. The trial court again adopted essentially the same plan for partition as it had earlier, except that 16 blocks were designated for division into four parts.
In the findings of fact and conclusions of law, the trial court stated it had     considered, among other evidence, testimony regarding historical use of the property by the Gillmor family, its present use, its quantity, its description, the quality, forage, and carrying capacity based upon animal units, water, water rights, stock in irrigation companies, livestock trails, crops, improvements, access, easements and cross-easements, impact of flood plain and zoning, regulations, highest and best use, market value, market value based on forage and carrying capacity, leases, BLM permits, transfer of BLM permits, commensurate land, the number and kind of livestock operated by plaintiffs (or a corporation they control), the value of that livestock, the economics of plaintiffs' operation of the livestock business, the equities involved in abolishing plaintiffs' livestock business, and the equities of all the parties.
The trial court divided the property into seventeen blocks, found that all but one could be equitably divided into four parcels of equal quantity and quality without prejudice to the owners, and that the division of the land into such parcels would not decrease the value of the whole.
With regard to plaintiffs' claim that it was inequitable to in effect abolish their livestock business, which they claimed would result from the partition being based on quantity rather than value, the court found that all the parties wanted some of the ranching property; that plaintiffs would suffer no serious economic loss, considering that their annual rate of return through their livestock business was only .028 to.035 percent; that even if plaintiffs received all the property they requested, they would still have to lease more in order to carry on the current year-round operation; and that under the partition order, plaintiffs could still operate a livestock business through leasing, as had been done for years anyway.
Plaintiffs have now appealed again, arguing that the trial court (1) disregarded this Court's instructions on remand; (2) erred in partitioning the ranch land into small unuseable pieces; (3) erred in ordering the sale of the Old Ranch; and (4) committed prejudicial error by excluding some of plaintiffs' evidence on property values.
In another partition case, Barrett v. Vickers, 24 Utah 2d 334, 471 P.2d 157 (1970), we explained the reason for our deferential stance on review:     The answer to the appellants' attack on the findings and judgment is found in the traditional rules of review: that due to the trial court's prerogatives and advantaged position the presumptions favor his findings and judgment; that where there is dispute and disagreement in the evidence we assume that he believed those aspects of it and drew the inferences fairly to be derived therefrom which give them support; and if upon our survey of the evidence in that light, there is a reasonable basis to sustain them they will not be disturbed.
The court then used those findings to determine the approximate value of the lands each party would take under plaintiffs' theory of partition.
Plaintiffs had ample opportunity to present their evidence and further argument that the trial court should partition the land on the basis of value.
In view of the rapidly changing land values in the areas where the subject property is located, the trial court found:     It is inequitable to award to plaintiff, as the owner of a one-fourth interest in each parcel of land, 63. percent of the land.
In addition the court found that plaintiffs would have to lease additional land even if they were allotted all they requested, that leasing is a usual business practice in a ranching operation such as plaintiffs', that plaintiffs' rate of return on their operation was only approximately .03 percent based on the fair market value of the land, and that the average net income for the years 1976, 1977, and 1978 was only $12,497.
Although the evidence conflicts somewhat concerning the effect of the partition on the value of the property as a whole, there is evidence to support the trial court's conclusion that the division into parcels would neither decrease the value of the whole nor prejudice the owners.
The evidence supports the trial court's finding that "[t]he Old Ranch ... cannot be equitably partitioned in kind without great prejudice to any of the owners, as those parcels contain substantial buildings and improvements of such diverse nature and lands of such diversity of development and productivity that partition in kind would be inequitable."
Accordingly, the trial court's judgment and decree of partition is in all respects affirmed, except with respect to the manner of selling the Old Ranch property.