We affirm the order entered in Mt. Laurel and reverse the order entered in Sullivan. Rule of Professional Conduct 1.9(a) provides that "[a] lawyer who has represented a client in a matter shall not thereafter represent another client in the same or a substantially related matter in which that client's interests are materially adverse to the interests of the former client unless the former client gives informed consent confirmed in writing."
SULLIVAN Because Sullivan is not "the same matter" — in the sense that it is not the same civil action — as Mt. Laurel, the question whether Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack may represent Davis in Sullivan is not quite as obvious as it is in Mt. Laurel. The question we must decide is whether Sullivan is, in the words of RPC 1.9(a), a matter "substantially related" to Mt. Laurel. This question involves consideration of the Sullivan plaintiffs' standing to complain (i.e., whether Eisdorfer and the Public Advocate previously represented the Sullivan plaintiffs) and, if so, whether the test outlined in Trupos, supra, 201 N.J. at 467, requires disqualification.
In their complaint, the Sullivan plaintiffs assert they are entitled to the consent order's benefits; it would be an odd and crabbed interpretation of what was accomplished in Mt. Laurel to view current beneficiaries of the orders entered in the 1980s, and later, to fall outside the class that the Public Advocate and later Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack represented years ago simply because they may not have been members when the class was created thirty years ago.
What remains, then, turns on whether the nature of the controversy in Sullivan may be said to be "substantially related" to Mt. Laurel. In Trupos, the Supreme Court declared that     for purposes of RPC 1.9, matters are deemed to be "substantially related" if (1) the lawyer for whom disqualification is sought received confidential information from the former client that can be used against that client in the subsequent representation of parties adverse to the former client, or (2) facts relevant to the prior representation are both relevant and material to the subsequent representation.
The dispute between the Sullivan plaintiffs and Davis is, in fact, the same as the dispute between the Mt. Laurel plaintiffs and Davis, and the resolution of that controversy will be dependent in whole or in part on matters already adjudicated in Mt. Laurel while Eisdorfer was affiliated with the Public Advocate.  The only apparent difference between the two matters seems to arise solely from the fact that the Sullivan plaintiffs commenced a separate action for relief.
And communications both during and subsequent to Eisdorfer's involvement in Mt. Laurel on behalf of the Public Advocate demonstrate — by pointing out this long, unresolved disagreement between plaintiffs and Davis about when the thirty-year term commences — that the interests of the former client and the current client are "materially adverse" since it is in plaintiffs' best interests to maximize, while it is in Davis's interests to minimize, the end date of the thirty-year period.
RPC 1.9(a) prohibits, without consent, an attorney from switching sides in such circumstances.