 They were stolen in 1945 from a castle located in what is now East Germany and fortuitously discovered in 1966 in the Brooklyn home of Edward I. Elicofon, an American citizen, where they had been openly displayed by him to friends since his good-faith purchase  of them over 20 years earlier without knowledge that they were Duerers. The search for an answer to the deceptively simple question, "Who owns the paintings?," involves a labyrinthian journey through 19th century German dynastic law, contemporary German property law, Allied Military Law during the post-War occupation of Germany, New York State law, and intricate conceptions of succession and sovereignty in international law.
The Grand Duchess of Saxony-Weimar ("Grand Duchess"), who intervened as plaintiff in the lawsuit, which was initiated in 1969 by the Federal Republic of Germany ("FRG"), the government of West Germany, claims that the paintings were and remain the private property of the successive Grand Dukes of Saxony-Weimar and that title to the paintings was assigned to her by her husband Grand Duke Carl August. Kunstsammlungen zu Weimar ("KZW"), or the Weimar Art Collection, also intervened as plaintiff representing the interests of the German Democratic Republic ("GDR"), the government of East Germany, claiming that title to the paintings passed to the GDR as a successor in interest to the public property of predecessor sovereignties.
In separate opinions, Judge Jacob Mishler of the Eastern District of New York granted summary judgment in favor of KZW and dismissed the claims of both intervenor-plaintiff Grand Duchess and defendant Elicofon. We affirm, substantially for the reasons stated in Judge Mishler's thorough and carefully reasoned opinions.
This consolidated appeal raises two distinct issues: (1) as between the Grand Duchess and KZW, who owned the Duerer paintings when they were stolen in 1945; and (2) whether Elicofon subsequently acquired valid title at the expense of the true owner, either upon his purchase or at some later time as a result of his uninterrupted good faith possession of them for 20 years from 1946 to 1966.
KZW contends, to the contrary, that the paintings were public property on the basis of 19th century dynastic law, a 1921 settlement between the Grand Duke Wilhelm Ernst and the newly established Territory of Weimar (the successor sovereign of the Grand Duchy), and a 1927 settlement with the Land of Thuringia, successor to the Territory of Weimar. Under German dynastic law in the nineteenth and early twentieth century property held by royal heads of state (e.g., grand dukes, princes, etc.) in their capacities as sovereigns was distinguished from property held in their private capacities.
In 1948 the right to the annuities was extinguished by expropriation through an Act passed by the Landtag of Thuringia. KZW maintains that the Duerer paintings became public property in any of three ways: (1) the 1918 abdication of Wilhelm Ernst, (2) the 1921 Agreement, and (3) the 1927 Agreement, and that KZW acquired title as the successor to the Land of Thuringia.  The Grand Duchess maintains, apparently in the alternative, either that the paintings were private property whose title never passed to the Land because male heirs remain extant even today, or that, although title may have passed, she regained it when the annuities were improperly terminated in 1945.
Also as a result of KZW's entry, the Grand Duchess on April 9, 1975, filed an amended complaint adding certain cross-claims against KZW for the payment of past-due and future annuities allegedly owing under the 1921 Agreement. By decision and order dated August 24, 1978, Judge Mishler granted KZW's motion for summary judgment dismissing the  Grand Duchess' claim and denied her request for an order compelling additional discovery.
On the central question of title, Judge Mishler held that the 1927 Agreement, standing alone, "unequivocably established that at least from that time forward" the paintings were owned by the State. He explicitly left unresolved KZW's claims that title passed automatically in 1918 upon the Grand Duke's abdication and by virtue of the 1921 Agreement. He based his view of the 1927 Agreement on (1) the terms of § 1 of that Agreement, (2) an exchange of correspondence demonstrating that the 1927 Agreement covered the Duerer paintings, and (3) a 1973 judgment by the highest court of the FRG regarding certain other paintings in the same posture as the Duerers, which rejected the Grand Duchess' claim that the Grand Ducal Art Collection was private property.
These documents, contained in two Thuringian Finance and Culture Ministry files that the Grand Duchess had belatedly obtained only through discovery, reveal the course of negotiation between the Weimar Museum and the Grand Duke's heirs in the three to four years leading up to the 1927 Agreement. Judge Mishler also denied the Grand Duchess' request, based in large part on these recently discovered documents, for an order compelling additional discovery and postponing decision on the summary judgment motion, holding that she had failed to disclose any issues of material fact to warrant further discovery under Rule 56(f) of the F.R.Civ.P. On September 1, 1978, the Grand Duchess moved for reargument, this time attaching copies of the German documents summarized in the earlier affidavit.
Judge Mishler found that the paintings were stolen between June 12 and July 19, 1945, that the GDR is entitled to assert ownership as a successor in interest to the property of either the Land of Thuringia or the Third Reich, and that KZW is a validly authorized juristic person with legal capacity to prosecute this claim on behalf of the GDR. On the central issue of title, Elicofon had claimed that he obtained good title at the time of his purchase since the paintings were initially sold by a custodian of the paintings who under German law could convey good title even though not himself in possession of good title.
 In the alternative Elicofon claimed that he acquired good title some time subsequent to his purchase, either under the German doctrine of "Ersitzung," under which a good faith purchaser gains title to a stolen object upon 10 years' possession without notice of defect in title, or because the New York statute of limitations had run and therefore barred KZW from bringing this suit.
Thus Judge Mishler's holding that the State's ownership of the paintings was established by the 1927 Agreement is fully supported and indeed strengthened by the earlier occurrences, including the 1918 abdication and the 1921 Agreement, which unequivocally rebut the erroneous assumption underlying the Grand Duchess' interpretation of the 1927 Agreement, namely, that the Grand Ducal Art Collection was originally private property and not Krongut or Kammervermoegen, and is therefore governed by §§ 8 and 9 rather than by § 1 of the 1921 Agreement. Moreover, it is undisputed that the 1913 Museum Catalogue, which clearly designates those objects owned privately by the Grand Duke, failed to designate the Duerer paintings as privately owned.
We hold, therefore, that the paintings, as acknowledged by § 1 of the 1921 Agreement and § 1 of the 1927 Agreement, were the "exclusive property" of the Territory of Weimar.  We also reject the Grand Duchess' "reversion" theory, under which she claims that even if the paintings became public property in 1921 she regained title to them when the annuity payments ceased in 1945.
Judge Mishler held that under New York law KZW's claim accrued in 1966 and that, even if it accrued earlier in 1946, the then-applicable limitation period was tolled under New York's judicially-created "non-recognition" toll because the United States did not recognize GDR until 1974, which precluded the KZW from intervening until then.
In Menzel v. List, supra, the Appellate Division clearly held that the owner's demand on a bona fide purchaser is substantive, that § 206(a) is inapplicable, and that the statute of limitations begins to run only upon the purchaser's refusal to return the property.
Similarly, we cannot accord much weight to Smith v. Driscoll, 69 A.D.2d 857, 415 N.Y.S.2d 455 (2d Dept. 1979), where in a case also not involving a bona fide purchaser the Appellate Division, in one short sentence and without any discussion of Menzel or of the substantive/procedural distinction, affirmed the lower court's dismissal of a conversion claim as time-barred, relying on Fries. Finally, in Al-Roc Product Corp. v. Union Dime Savings Bank, 74 A.D.2d 834, 425 N.Y.S.2d 525 (2d Dept. 1980), the court's one-sentence statement is a skeletal memorandum opinion that a cause of action against a wrongful possessor accrues upon the wrongful possession is dictum, since the court held that the conversion action was timely.
Even were we to assume that under New York law KZW's cause of action accrued in 1946, we would affirm Judge Mishler's holding that the statute of limitations was tolled under New York's judicially created "non-recognition" toll until 1974, when the United States first recognized the GDR. See Steingut v. Guaranty Trust Co., 58 F.Supp. 623 (S.D.N.Y.1944).
In any event the six-year limitations period would not have run by 1949, when the Allied Control Council ceased acting as the government of occupied Germany, in view of the Soviets' withdrawal from the Council. The Soviets had been empowered to act with respect to its "zone of occupation," which included Weimar. Moreover, in any such hypothetical suit the state of war that officially remained in effect until 1951 would have cast serious doubt upon the Allied Council's capacity to sue since at least technically it would be viewed as a military government in charge of an enemy and the recognized procedure for recovery of German-owned property in the United States was governed by the Trading With the Enemy Act. See Ex Parte Colonna, 314 U.S. 510, 511, 62 S.Ct. 373, 374, 86 L.Ed. 379 (1942); Trading With the Enemy Act of 1917, 50 U.S.C.App. § 2(b).
In light of our conclusion that the German doctrine of Ersitzung is inapplicable, we do not reach Elicofon's contention that summary judgment on the proper application of Ersitzung was inappropriate in light of the controversies among the various German law experts.