Proper application of the art. 10, § 2's "public use" limitation on the exercise of eminent domain requires that the Court abandon Poletown's holding that land can be taken by the government and transferred to a private entity upon the mere showing that the economy will generally benefit from the condemnation.
It invites the erosion of constitutional protections intended by the Michigan voters who ratified the 1963 Constitution.  The majority's approach ignores the words of Michigan's respected jurist, Justice THOMAS M. COOLEY, who warned against the tendency to force from the Constitution, by "interested subtlety and ingenious refinement," meaning that was never intended by the people who adopted it.
[Traverse City School Dist. v. Attorney General, 384 Mich. 390, 405, 185 N.W.2d 9 (1971), quoting Cooley's Const. Lim. 81 (emphasis in Traverse City School Dist.).] To ascertain the common understanding of the Constitution, the Court may also consider the circumstances surrounding the adoption of a constitutional provision and the purpose sought to be accomplished by it.
" The Court majority next launched its unprecedented rule of constitutional interpretation:     This, then, is the rule: if a constitutional phrase is a technical legal term or a phrase of art in the law, the phrase will be given the meaning that those sophisticated in the law understood at the time of the enactment unless it is clear from the constitutional language that some other meaning was intended.
 In 1852, this Court noted that "the whole policy of this country relative to roads, mills, bridges and canals, rests upon this single power [of eminent domain]...." Thus, eminent domain has long been one of the "leading principles of government" that we must assume the people understood when they ratified each of Michigan's constitutions.
'"  To clarify the meaning understood by the ratifiers of art. 10, § 2, Peterman cited an 1857 case discussing the power of and limitations on eminent domain and in a footnote provided the following historical context:     Before the American Revolution and the drafting of the United States Constitution, the sovereign was not only empowered to take private property for public use, but such takings were almost always uncompensated....
As noted by Justice COOLEY, "[a] little investigation will show that any definition [of `public use'] attempted would exclude some subjects that properly should be included in, and include some subjects that must be excluded from, the operation of the words `public use'...." Nevertheless, the majority opines that     transfer of condemned property to a private entity, seen through the eyes of an individual sophisticated in the law at the time of ratification of our 1963 Constitution, would be appropriate in one of three contexts: (1) where "`public necessity of the extreme sort'" requires collective action; (2) where the property remains subject to public oversight after transfer to a private entity; and (3) where the property selected is due to "facts of independent public significance," rather than the interests of the private entity to which the property is eventually transferred.
For example, a municipality could declare the lack of a two-car garage to be evidence of blight, as has been attempted in Lakewood, Ohio or justify condemning a small brake repair business so that the property can be used for a hardware store, as has been attempted in Mesa, Arizona.  The majority's "sophisticated in the law" approach makes the intended protections from such encroachments on protected rights less certain because it moves away from the constitutional text.
Justice COOLEY aptly summarized the "public use" limitations as follows:     [T]he public use implies a possession, occupation, and enjoyment of the land by the public at large, or by public agencies; and due protection to the rights of private property will preclude the government from seizing it in the hands of the owner, and turning it over to another on vague grounds of public benefit to spring from the more profitable use to which the latter may devote it.
" Contrary to the majority's suggestion, Justice Cooley does not justify invoking a cadre of legal "sophisticates" to help ascertain the meaning of "public use," rather it reveals that "public use" is indeed a constitutional term that must be understood not in its "more popular character," but rather in "the sense fixed upon the words in legal and constitutional history where they have been employed for the protection of popular rights.
" The facts of each case involving a proposed condemnation should be considered in light of the "public use" limitation on the exercise of eminent domain as the limitation would have been commonly understood by the people, learned and unlearned, who ratified the Constitution. This ensures that the "sense fixed upon the words in the legal and constitutional history" continue to serve to protect the "popular rights.
IV. Conclusion I agree with the majority's result and its decision to overrule Poletown. Poletown wrongly abandoned the express constitutional limitation on the exercise of eminent domain power when it held that land can be taken by the government and transferred to a private entity upon the mere showing that the economy will generally benefit from the condemnation.
The majority's new rule of constitutional interpretation opens the door, as Justice Cooley warned, for "interested subtlety and ingenious refinement" to be forced on the Constitution's language — constitutional language that the people framed and adopted for themselves "as a chart upon which every man, learned and unlearned, may be able to trace the leading principles of government.
" Where a legal and constitutional term is so embedded in our constitutional law and history and so familiar to the people as to be commonly understood, this Court should not redefine it through the eyes of those "sophisticated in the law," but should give it the common understanding that the people who ratified the Constitution would have given the term 