In addition, each application states that the company will not consider any applicant for employment unless he or she also signs the Agreement. The Agreement provides, in pertinent part, that an applicant will resolve: any and all previously unasserted claims, disputes or controversies arising out of or relating to [his or her] application or candidacy for employment, employment and/or cessation of employment with Circuit City, exclusively by final and binding arbitration before a neutral Arbitrator. By way of example only, such claims include claims under federal, state and local statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the amendments of the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of contract and law of tort.
The following clauses offer some detail as to how legal rights will be affected by the Agreement: I understand that if I do file a lawsuit regarding a dispute arising out of or relating to my application or candidacy for employment, employment or cessation or employment, Circuit City may use this Agreement in support of its request to the court to dismiss the lawsuit and require me instead to use arbitration.
Defendant now moves this Court to compel arbitration and stay these proceedings pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act ("FAA"), 9 U.S.C. 3 and 4, or, in the alternative, to dismiss this case entirely    pursuant to Rule 12(b)(1) or Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, because Plaintiff and Defendant are parties to this Agreement requiring them to resolve this type of dispute through final and binding arbitration.
In the instant matter, Defendant refutes the factual allegations in Plaintiff's Complaint concerning the enforceability of the Agreement. In support of its Motion to Dismiss, Defendant submits a copy of the application Plaintiff signed on July 10, 1995 and a declaration from Pamela G. Parsons concerning that application and the Agreement. Apparently because the Agreement requires final and binding arbitration of all employment disputes, Defendant asserts that the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction over Plaintiff's Complaint, or, alternatively, that Plaintiff's Complaint fails to state a claim upon which relief can be granted.
Defendant asserts that the FAA applies to this case and that the FAA requires the enforcement of the Agreement. I. Federal Arbitration Act The FAA provides that arbitration provisions in any "contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce" are "valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract." 9 U.S.C. 2.
In the instant matter, the Court finds that Plaintiff was not engaged in the movement of goods in interstate commerce in the same manner of seamen and railroad workers while she worked as a store manager for Defendant. Therefore, the Agreement signed between Plaintiff and Defendant for the arbitration of all employment disputes falls within the type of contracts contemplated by the FAA. See Cosgrove v. Shearson Lehman Bros., No. 95-3432, 1997 WL 4783, 1997 U.S.App. LEXIS 392, at *4 (6th Cir. Jan. 6, 1997).
Furthermore, the Sixth Circuit recognizes that both statutory and common law claims may be subject to an arbitration agreement enforceable under the FAA. See Cosgrove, 1997 WL 4783, 1997 U.S.App. LEXIS 392, at *5-*6 (citing Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp., 500 U.S. 20, 26, 111 S.Ct. 1647, 114 L.Ed.2d 26 (1991) (holding that claims arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA") may be subject to an enforceable arbitration agreement); Willis v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., 948 F.2d 305, 310 (6th Cir.1991) (extending the holding of Gilmer to claims arising under Title VII)). The Supreme Court reiterated in Gilmer that, "`[h]aving made the bargain to arbitrate, the party should be held to it unless Congress itself has evinced an intention to preclude a waiver of judicial remedies for the statutory rights at issue.'"
Because we find no evidence that Congress intended to preclude the arbitration of her statutory claims and because Plaintiff fails to persuade us that Ohio would preclude the arbitration of her state-law claims, the Court concludes that Plaintiff should be held to her bargain unless (1) the traditional grounds for revocation of a contract exist in this case or (2) the Agreement fails to protect the substantive rights guaranteed by law.
II. Enforceability of the Agreement Plaintiff urges the Court to find the Agreement unenforceable, arguing that the Agreement is an unconscionable adhesion contract that limits Plaintiff's substantive rights and remedies under Title VII and Ohio Rev.Code   4112.
In view of the fact that Plaintiff signed the Agreement in Ohio and that her employment and termination occurred in Ohio, the Court will apply the common law of Ohio to this matter.
In support of her argument that the Agreement is a contract of adhesion, Plaintiff alleges that she was "forced" to sign the Agreement as part of the application in order to be considered for employment by Defendant. Plaintiff also contends that Defendant, a large company with retail facilities across the country, is more sophisticated and maintains more bargaining power than Plaintiff. She states that she was extremely surprised to learn that the Agreement amounted to a waiver of her right to a judicial forum and a jury trial.
Plaintiff further argues that the Agreement is unconscionable because it threatens to deny her the substantive rights and remedies provided by Title VII and Ohio Rev.Code   4112.
In contrast, Defendant asserts that the Agreement is not a contract of adhesion simply because Plaintiff had to sign it before she could be considered for employment.
In addition, Defendant argues that the Agreement signed by both Plaintiff and Defendant pursuant to the application was "clear and unambiguous" and could not lead to the type of surprise Plaintiff now asserts.
The Court finds Defendant's arguments persuasive, and we conclude that Plaintiff fails to show the unfairness or undue oppression necessary to support a finding that the Agreement amounted to an unconscionable contract of adhesion on a substantive or procedural basis.
We also find here that the balance of power between Plaintiff as an applicant and Defendant as a potential employer was not so disproportionate as to prevent a voluntary meeting of the minds on the issue of arbitration.
The Court agrees that the facts of this case may be distinguished from the facts of Trumbull. Both Plaintiff and Defendant signed the Agreement within the short job application, and even though Defendant could alter or terminate the Agreement or the Rules and Procedures, Defendant could only do so at certain times and only after providing 30 days' notice to employees.
In Johnson v. Circuit City Stores, Inc., 148 F.3d 373, 378 (4th Cir.1998), the Fourth Circuit found that the same Circuit City arbitration agreement to be supported by adequate consideration: [B]oth parties in this case agreed to be bound by the arbitration process for the resolution of any claim required to be submitted to arbitration under the Dispute Resolution Agreement. Therefore, we hold that the Dispute Resolution Agreement was supported by adequate consideration ... no consideration above and beyond the agreement to be bound by the arbitration process was required.
Id. However, in this case, we initially find that the Agreement in which Plaintiff and Defendant promised to submit to final and binding arbitration of any employment-related claims is clear and unambiguous.
In Gilmer, 500 U.S. at 28, 111 S.Ct. 1647, the Supreme Court found that "`so long as the prospective litigant effectively may vindicate [his or her] statutory cause of action in the arbitral forum, the statute will continue to serve both its remedial and deterrent function.'"
Moreover, Plaintiff may recover both compensatory and punitive damages as well as reasonable attorneys' fees and costs under the Agreement. Therefore, we conclude that Plaintiff could effectively vindicate her statutory and common law causes of action in the arbitral forum offered by Defendant. F. Public Policy Finally, Plaintiff asserts that the Agreement violates public policy by taking away her right to a jury trial.
Plaintiff argues that both the U.S. Constitution and the Ohio Constitution express a public policy in favor of the right to a jury trial, and so mandatory arbitration agreements should not be enforced by the courts.
As to Defendant's request that this Court stay the proceedings pending arbitration under   3 of the FAA or dismiss this matter pursuant to Rule 12(b)(1) or Rule 12(b)(6), we note that a court may dismiss a lawsuit when it determines that all of the issues involved are subject to arbitration.
Therefore, pursuant to the valid contract signed between Plaintiff and Defendant, we find that the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction over the claims asserted in Plaintiff's Complaint and that we may dismiss this action pursuant to Rule 12(b)(1).