The majority hold that the California tort of trespass to chattels does not encompass the use of expressly unwanted electronic mail that causes no physical damage or impairment to the recipient's computer system.
In my view, the repeated transmission of bulk e-mails by appellant Kourosh Kenneth Hamidi (Hamidi) to the employees of Intel Corporation (Intel) on its proprietary confidential email lists, despite Intel's demand that he cease such activities, constituted an actionable trespass to chattels.
opn., ante, 1 Cal. Rptr.3d at p. 38, 71 P.3d at p. 301); they also constituted a misappropriation of Intel's private computer system contrary to its intended use and against Intel's wishes.
The trial court, in its order granting summary judgment and a permanent injunction, made the following pertinent findings regarding Hamidi's transmission of bulk electronic mail: "Intel has requested that Hamidi stop sending the messages, but Hamidi has refused, and has employed  surreptitious means to circumvent Intel's efforts to block entry of his messages into Intel's system.... [¶] ...
The e-mail system is dedicated for use in conducting business, including communications between Intel employees and its customers and vendors.
Employee e-mail addresses are not published for use outside company business.... [¶] The intrusion by Hamidi into the Intel e-mail system has resulted in the expenditure of company resources to seek to block his mailings and to address employee concerns about the mailings.
The majority agree that an impairment of Intel's system would result in an action for trespass to chattels, but find that Intel suffered no injury.
" Here, Hamidi's deliberate and continued intermeddling, and threatened intermeddling, with Intel's proprietary computer system for his own purposes that were hostile to Intel, certainly impaired the quality and value of the system as an internal business device for Intel and forced Intel to incur costs to try to maintain the security and integrity of its server—efforts that proved ineffective.
opn., ante, 1 Cal.Rptr.3d at p. 46, 71 P.3d at p. 308) to consider those costs a damage to Intel. Indeed, part of the value of the proprietary computer system is the ability to exclude intermeddlers from entering it for significant uses that are disruptive to its owner's business operations.
  All of these costs to protect the integrity of the computer system and to deal with the disruptive effects of the transmissions and the expenditures attributable to employee time, constitute damages sufficient to establish the existence of a trespass to chattels, even if the computer system was not overburdened to the point of a "crash" by the bulk electronic mail.
The several courts that have applied the tort of trespass to chattels to deliberate intermeddling with proprietary computer systems have, for the most part, used a similar analysis.
The company was not required to show that its computer system was overwhelmed or suffered a diminution in performance; mere use of the system by the defendant was sufficient to allow the plaintiff to prevail on the trespass to chattels claim.
The majority suggest that Intel is not entitled to injunctive relief because it chose to allow its employees access to email through the Internet and because Hamidi has apparently told employees that he will remove them from his mailing list if they so request.
The fact that, like most large businesses, Intel's intranet includes external e-mail access for essential business purposes does not logically mean, as the majority suggest, that Intel has forfeited the right to determine who has access to its system.
 Moreover, Intel would have less incentive to allow employees reasonable use of its equipment to send and receive personal e-mails if such allowance is justification for preventing restrictions on unwanted intrusions into its computer system.
(Adderley v. Florida (1966) 385 U.S. 39, 47, 87 S. Ct. 242, 17 L. Ed. 2d 149 ["Nothing in the Constitution of the United States prevents Florida from even-handed enforcement of its general trespass statute...."]; Church of Christ in Hollywood v. Superior Court (2002) 99 Cal. App. 4th 1244, 1253-1254, 121 Cal. Rptr. 2d 810 [affirming a restraining order preventing former church member from entering church property: "[the United States Supreme Court] has never held that a trespasser or an uninvited guest may exercise general rights of free speech on property privately owned"]; see also CompuServe Inc. v. Cyber Promotions,  Inc., supra, 962 F.Supp. at p. 1026 ["the mere judicial enforcement of neutral trespass laws by the private owner of property does not alone render it a state actor"]; Cyber Promotions, Inc. v. American Online, Inc. (E.D.Pa.1996) 948 F. Supp. 436, 456 ["a private company such as Cyber simply does not have the unfettered right under the First Amendment to invade AOL's private property...."].)
For these reasons, I respectfully dissent 