Gissel now brings an action for the tort of conversion for one-half the value of the sold rice, claiming status as a prior possessor of the rice and asserting superior rights against the State of Idaho in that portion of the rice harvested from the U.S. Forest Service land.
Accepting the fact that 50% of the crop was grown on United States Forest Service land, the issue in this case is whether one who has admittedly trespassed and taken wild rice which does not belong to him can maintain an action for conversion based on an alleged status as a prior possessor.
Keeping in mind that Gissel's claim, as the trial court described it, rests solely on a claim of prior possession by a "thief," "[T]he essence of an action for conversion is the wrongful deprivation of property from the person entitled to possession.
The second element also is not met by Gissel. The only claim that Gissel can demonstrate in the rice is that of one who "knowingly" and "wrongfully" took property which did not belong to him.
When the rice was taken from Gissel pursuant to the valid search warrant, Gissel lawfully lost possession, which was his only claim to the property.
No conversion could have occurred when possession was taken from Gissel because that taking was pursuant to a valid search warrant, and therefore was not "an unauthorized and wrongful assumption of control, dominion or ownership...." Klam v. Koppel, 63 Idaho 171, 118 P.2d 729 (1941).
The subsequent disposition of the perishable property to prevent spoiling could not have been a conversion against Gissel because, at that time, he had neither possession nor any legal claim to the rice.
Waugh v. University of Hawaii, supra. Protection of Gissel does not protect the U.S. Forest Service interest in wildlife management, but only protects the interest of Gissel.  The district court and the majority sidestep defendant's Exhibit "B", which is a memorandum of understanding between the Fish & Game Department and the Forest Service, and Stipulation No. 2, which states: "2.
The law should not reward theft 