The defendant-appellant, State of Idaho, raises two issues on appeal: (1) whether the district court erred in finding a factual basis for a 50/50 division of ownership of the wild rice between the State of Idaho and the United States Forest Service; and (2) whether the district court erred in holding that the plaintiffsrespondents the Gissels, were entitled to recover the proceeds of the sale of the wild rice they harvested from the U.S. Forest Service land.
I The state argues that the district court's factual finding of a 50/50 division of ownership of the land from which the rice was gathered and, therefore, a 50/50 division of the proceeds of the sale of the rice, is not supported by the facts produced at trial.
Evidence produced at trial clearly indicates that the wild rice was gathered from land belonging to both the U.S. Forest Service and the State of Idaho. The Gissels testified that they knew the land where they gathered the rice belonged to the Forest Service and the State. Al Brunner, a former employee of the Department of Fish and Game, who worked in that area and had knowledge of the lands and its ownership, testified that he believed the rice was gathered from Forest Service land and state land in quantities amounting to the 50/50 split.
The fact that the amount received from the sale is disputed to be either $9,000 or 16,000 has no bearing upon the valuation of the rice for purposes of this appeal. The district court correctly held that the Gissels were entitled to recover only the amount of $10,500 attributable to National Forest Service land, since the other $10,500 was gathered from state land and rightfully belonged to the state.
II The second issue raised on appeal by the state is whether the district court erred in permitting the Gissels to recover from the state the value of the rice attributable to the National Forest Service land.
The district court found that the Gissels are entitled to recover from the state because it unlawfully converted part of the proceeds from the sale of the rice when it refused to account for the amount it received for the rice attributable to the U.S. Forest Service land.
By contrast, in the case at bar, the Gissels do not seek the return of property which rightfully belonged to the state—but only that portion which belonged to the Forest Service. The Gissels, as prior possessors, have a superior right as against the state to possession of the proceeds attributable to Forest Service land.
The Gissels made a timely claim for the return of the proceeds of the sale from the Forest Service lands and, the State cannot rely upon I.C. § 19-3801 through I.C. § 19-3805 to justify its actions in not accounting for the proceeds of the sale and returning that share which, for the purposes of this appeal, belongs to the Gissels. The state's second argument is based upon the theory that it was acting as an agent for the Forest Service and was thereby authorized to sell the rice and retain possession of the proceeds for the benefit of the Forest Service. Agency is a fiduciary relationship in which the principal confers authority upon the agent to act for the principal.
The district court heard the evidence, assessed the reliability and the weight of the witnesses' testimony, and found that the state was not the agent of the Forest Service. We, therefore, affirm the district court's decision 