It is a foreign corporation that operates a manufacturing plant in the State of Washington. At that plant, steel castings were made and then sold to Abex Corporation, which used them in the manufacture of cylinders in California. The cylinders ultimately served as parts of a dredge constructed by Avondale Shipyard, Inc. in Louisiana. Bean Dredging Corporation initiated this litigation with the claims that the suppliers and manufacturers of the dredge were negligent and strictly liable for its defects.
The issue presented on this appeal is whether Rogers-Olympic had sufficient minimum contacts with the State of Louisiana for purposes of personal jurisdiction under the Louisiana Long-Arm Statute and the Due Process Clause. EXERCISE OF IN PERSONAM JURISDICTION UNDER LOUISIANA'S LONG-ARM STATUTE This court has considered the Louisiana Long-Arm Statute in the past, and noted that it extends to the limits of due process.
A. "Minimum Contacts" With Louisiana Rogers-Olympic, a Washington corporation, constructed steel castings used in the manufacture of hydraulic cylinders by the Remco Division of Abex in California. The cylinders, with the Rogers-Olympic steel castings incorporated into them, were eventually used in the dredge constructed by Avondale for Bean's use in Louisiana. Appellants herein argue the "stream of commerce" theory as developed in part in World-Wide Volkswagen v. Woodson, 444 U.S. 286, 100 S.Ct. 559, 62 L.Ed.2d 490 (1980).
Quasha v. Shale Development Corp., 667 F.2d 483, 488 (5th Cir.1982).  In expounding this concept of purposeful availment of a state's laws, the Supreme Court in World-Wide Volkswagen stated: When a corporation "purposefully avails itself of the privilege of conducting activities within the forum State," ... it has clear notice that it is subject to suit there, and can act to alleviate the risk of burdensome litigation by procuring insurance, passing the expected costs on to customers, or, if the risks are too great, severing its connection with the State. Hence, if the sale of a product of a manufacturer or distributor such as Audi or Volkswagen is not simply an isolated occurrence, but arises from the efforts of the manufacturer or distributor to serve, directly or indirectly, the market for its product in other States, it is not unreasonable to subject it to suit in one of those States if its allegedly defective merchandise has there been the source of injury to its owners or to others.
The forum State does not exceed its powers under the Due Process Clause if it asserts personal jurisdiction over a corporation that delivers its products into the stream of commerce with the expectation that they will be purchased by consumers in the forum State. 444 U.S. at 297-98, 100 S.Ct. at 567.
The fact remains that even though RogersOlympic "did not originate the distribution system and [does] not control it, [the company] did place the [steel castings] in and move them along a stream of commerce destined for retail sale [in finished products] throughout the United States." Nelson v. Park Industries, Inc., 717 F.2d 1120, 1126 (7th Cir.1983), cert. denied, ___ U.S. ___, 104 S.Ct. 1278, 79 L.Ed.2d 682 (1984).
Austin v. North American Forest Products, 656 F.2d 1076 (5th Cir.1982). Upon review of the record, these considerations lead to the conclusion that it is both fair and reasonable to require RogersOlympic to defend this suit in Louisiana. Because the product was used in Louisiana, because the defects surfaced in Louisiana, because the economic injury has befallen a resident of Louisiana, and because the court has not dismissed the remaining litigation in Louisiana, that state has an interest in providing a forum for this suit.
REVERSED AND REMANDED 