BACKGROUND The record demonstrates that a complaint was filed against defendant for the offense of criminal trespass to real property in violation of section 5/21-3(a) of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961 (Code). 720 ILCS 5/21- 3(a) (West 2000).
At about 12:10 p.m., defendant walked to the Parisi's property located at 1221 Meadowcrest with the letter in hand in order to discuss the situation with the Parisis. Sergio Parisi (Parisi), the complainant in this case, was outside mowing the lawn when defendant arrived and stood on the  sidewalk in front of the Parisi residence.
On cross-examination, defense counsel asked Parisi if defendant entered his property prior to walking onto the lawn to retrieve his papers, and Parisi testified that defendant had not.
On redirect examination, however, Parisi clarified his testimony regarding this issue and twice stated that defendant was standing on the driveway during his second attempt to speak with Parisi prior to entering the lawn area.
As he stood on the sidewalk near the Parisi's front lawn, defendant noticed that Parisi was mowing the lawn and wearing ear muffs.
After considering the facts of the case and the reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom, the court found defendant guilty of criminal trespass to property because the court believed that defendant "did go onto the land with notice that he was not supposed to be there."
Defendant argues that he was found guilty of a violation of subsection (a)(2) of the criminal trespass to real property statute even though the complaint filed against him describes a violation of subsection (a)(3) of the statute.
In each of those cases, the defendants were charged with murder under subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2) of section 9-1 of the Code (720 ILCS 5/9-1 (West 2000)) which provides: "(a) A person who kills an individual without lawful justification commits murder if, in performing the acts which causes death: (1) He either intends to kill or do great bodily harm to that individual or another, or knows that such acts will cause death to that individual or another; or  (2) He knows that such acts create a strong probability of death or great bodily harm to that individual or another." 720 ILCS 5/9-1(a)(1), (a)(2) (West 2000).
It is apparent that, through this exchange, defendant was trying to establish that Parisi merely told defendant he did not want to speak to him, but did not tell defendant to stay away from his property before defendant entered upon it, which would constitute the violation described under subsection (a)(2) of the statute.
Defendant concedes that he trespassed upon the Parisi's front lawn in order to retrieve an empty envelope which previously contained the DCFS letter, but asserts that his entrance onto the property was lawful pursuant to subsection (f) of the statute which provides that trespass is not prohibited in the event of an emergency which presents a danger to persons or property.
In the case at bar, Parisi's testimony established that defendant was told, prior to March 13, 2000, that he was prohibited from entering the Parisi property.
However, Parisi's version of events established that defendant entered onto the Parisi property during the second visit when defendant stood on the driveway.
Although defendant was repeatedly told to leave and threatened with arrest while standing on the driveway, defendant nevertheless deliberately threw his empty envelope onto the front lawn and then ventured further onto the Parisi's property in order to retrieve the empty envelope.
Thus, even if we were to agree with defendant's contention that an "emergency" was created when his empty envelope blew onto the Parisi's property, defendant would still be guilty of criminal trespass because he was standing on the Parisi's driveway with knowledge that he was prohibited from entering or remaining there prior to the alleged "emergency."
Moreover, assuming arguendo that defendant was not standing on Parisi's driveway and did not enter Parisi's property until he walked onto the front lawn to retrieve his empty envelope, we simply can not see how retrieval of defendant's empty envelope constitutes an emergency as contemplated  by the statute.
Defendant could have asked another neighbor to retrieve the envelope, could have waited for the envelope to flutter out of the Parisi's yard or could have asked Parisi to either retrieve the envelope or grant defendant permission to do so.
Affirmed 