The employer removed the case to federal district court on the ground that plaintiff had artfully pleaded what was in reality a challenge to the employer's compliance with federal law requiring the withholding of federal income tax.
Bechtel removed the case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on the ground that the true basis of the complaint was that Bechtel had complied with federal income tax laws in withholding tax from Bright's wages.
Bechtel petitioned to remove the case to federal district court on the ground that the "breach" Bright alleges is based upon Bechtel's withholding of income tax pursuant to federal law.
In addition, affidavits were presented to the district court showing that Bright's complaint contains language virtually identical to that in the complaint of another employee who had filed an action against Bechtel in state court. That action had been removed to the Northern District on the same ground, that the alleged breach of contract derived from the company's withholding of federal income tax from a  paycheck, and had been dismissed as frivolous shortly before Bright filed the complaint in this action.
The actions taken by Bechtel, in withholding federal income tax from Bright's wages, were fully in accordance with federal internal revenue regulations. This circuit has repeatedly held that an employer is not liable to an employee for complying with its legal duty to withhold tax.
Maxfield, 752 F.2d at 434; see Stonecipher v. Bray, 653 F.2d 398, 403 (9th Cir.1981) (employer has not breached employment contract by withholding taxes from wages and paying employee the balance), cert.
1006, 71 L.Ed.2d 297 (1982); Callow v. Amerace Corp., 681 F.2d 1242, 1243 (9th Cir.1982) (affirming dismissal of action against employer seeking to recover withheld federal and state income tax).
The district court properly dismissed Bright's claim involving withholding of federal income tax.
D. Dismissal of State Tax Withholding Claim Bright's complaint also raises a breach of contract claim against Bechtel based on the withholding of state income tax.
Bechtel withheld state income tax in compliance with a California state regulation, 22 Cal.Admin.Code ยง 4340-1(b), providing that a federal determination that a withholding exemption claim is invalid is also effective for state withholding purposes.
The district court had proper jurisdiction over the claim for breach of contract involving state tax withholding.
It is true that the principle of comity generally bars challenges to the validity of state tax systems in federal court. See Miller v. City of Los Angeles, 755 F.2d 1390, 1391 (9th Cir.
Bright does contend that the regulation requiring an employer to withhold state tax if the IRS determines an exemption claim is invalid, 22 Cal.Admin.Code ยง 4340-1(b), violates the California constitution and state statutes which purportedly prohibit such a delegation of state taxation authority to the federal government.
The action is plainly frivolous, brought in bad faith, and for the purposes of harassment. The district court was made aware of another recent judgment in the Northern District, dismissing a nearly identically worded complaint by another Bechtel employee, which found that there was an organized campaign of "tax protest" lawsuits, aimed at "thwarting federal tax regulations by inundating employers with frivolous suits in the hope that the volume and cost of litigation involved in defending these actions will deter employers from withholding taxes."
Maxfield v. United States Postal Service, 752 F.2d 433, 434-35 (9th Cir.1984) This court has imposed such sanctions previously in cases involving similar frivolous claims against employers for withholding income tax.
AFFIRMED 