In Matter of Levandusky v One Fifth Ave. Apt. Corp. (75 NY2d 530 ) we held that the business judgment rule is the proper standard of judicial review when evaluating decisions  made by residential cooperative corporations.
The cooperative terminated defendant's tenancy in accordance with a provision in the lease that authorized it to do so based on a tenant's "objectionable" conduct.
In reaction to defendant's behavior, the cooperative called a special meeting pursuant to article III (First) (f) of the lease agreement, which provides for termination of the tenancy if the cooperative by a two-thirds vote determines that "because of objectionable conduct on the part of the Lessee * * * the tenancy of the Lessee is undesirable.
" The cooperative informed the shareholders that the purpose of the meeting was to determine whether defendant "engaged in repeated actions  inimical to cooperative living and objectionable to the Corporation and its stockholders that make his continued tenancy undesirable."
The majority held that Levandusky prohibited judicial scrutiny of actions of cooperative boards "taken in good faith and in the exercise of honest judgment in the lawful and legitimate furtherance of corporate purposes" (296 AD2d 120, 124  [quoting Auerbach v Bennett, 47 NY2d 619, 629 (1979)]).
II. The Levandusky Business Judgment Rule The heart of this dispute is the parties' disagreement over the proper standard of review to be applied when a cooperative exercises its agreed-upon right to terminate a tenancy based on a shareholder-tenant's objectionable conduct.
The cooperative argues that its decision to do so should be reviewed in accordance with Levandusky's business judgment rule.
Levandusky established a standard of review analogous to the corporate business judgment rule for a shareholder-tenant challenge to a decision of a residential cooperative corporation.
The Court upheld the Board's action, and concluded that the business judgment rule "best balances the individual and collective interests at stake" in the residential cooperative setting (Levandusky, 75 NY2d at 537).
In the context of cooperative dwellings, the business judgment rule provides that a court should defer to a cooperative board's determination "[s]o long as the board acts for the purposes of the cooperative, within the scope of its authority and in good faith" (id. at 538).
While RPAPL 711 (1) applies to the termination before us, we are satisfied that the relationships among shareholders in cooperatives are sufficiently distinct from traditional landlord-tenant relationships that the statute's "competent evidence" standard is satisfied by the application of the business judgment rule.
Accordingly, the order of the Appellate Division should be affirmed, with costs.