The Court today rules that if a work of art has been stolen from an artist, the artist's right to recover his or her work from a subsequent possessor would be barred by the statute of limitations if the action were not brought within six years after the original theft.
 I By virtue of cross-motions for summary judgment, the posture of the case as it comes to us is that the paintings were stolen from their true owner, plaintiff O'Keeffe, and that defendant Snyder acted in good faith in purchasing the paintings.
The statute of limitations defense was raised by defendant Snyder, but it is not available here because Snyder's acts of conversion — his purchase of the paintings from third-party defendant Frank and his refusal to return them to plaintiff O'Keeffe upon demand — constituted independent tortious acts each of which occurred well within six years of the commencement of plaintiff's lawsuit.
The majority opinion recognizes the New York rule which clearly and dispositively treats a subsequent possessor's refusal to return goods upon a demand from the owner as an act of conversion that triggers the running of the statute of limitations applicable to replevin actions.
The issue, however, is not whether the New Jersey statute of limitations should be followed rather than that of New York. The New York rule of subsequent conversions, rejected by the majority, is not a "statute of limitations," but rather is a substantive principle of the law of torts.
As a tortious act, a subsequent conversion known to the injured owner of the goods would constitute the accrual of a cause of action and would trigger the running of the statute of limitations.
The Court further observes in this case that a cause of action for conversion accrued with the original theft of the paintings in 1946; it assumes that the statute of limitations commenced to run from the date of that theft, at least absent any tolling of the limitations period by the application of the discovery rule.
 II The holding of the majority, which involves a convoluted rendition of the law of statutes of limitations and adverse possession, in my respectful opinion, not only espouses an erroneous perception of the proper public policy to be achieved, but is actually unneeded even to secure the values endorsed by the Court. There is no reason why the concerns of the majority cannot be reasonably and fully accommodated by traditional doctrines that would, in a case such as this, lead us to a thorough consideration and careful balancing of all the equities as they bear directly upon the merits of the controversy.
See Lieber v. Mohawk Arms, Inc., 64 Misc.2d 206, 208, 314 N.Y.S.2d 510, 512 (Sup.Ct. 1970) (plaintiff entitled under U.C.C. to recover possession from bona fide purchaser certain of Adolf Hitler's personal effects to which plaintiff had title and which had been stolen from plaintiff); 67 Am.Jur.2d, Sales, § 257 at 392 (1973).
(sale of stolen automobile); Jordan v. Kancel, 188 Kan. 292, 294, 361 P.2d 894, 896 (Sup.Ct. 1961) (replevin action to recover television sets sold without title or authority by rental agent; "[i]t is a general rule with regard to personal property that title, like a stream, cannot rise higher than its source" (citation omitted)); Linwood Harvestore, Inc. v. Cannon, 427 Pa. 434, 437, 235 A.2d 377, 380 (Sup.Ct. 1967) (good faith purchase of farm equipment from converter; "[t]he general rule for chattels is that a bona fide purchaser from a thief gets nothing"); Prosser, supra § 15 at 87; Restatement (Second) of Torts, supra, § 229, Comment e at 448.
Under all of the circumstances, however, I do not believe that such a disposition would be appropriate and would instead counsel a remand, albeit with a focus and under guidelines very different from those expressed in the majority opinion. III "As a general rule, a defendant in a replevin action may interpose any defense which questions the plaintiff's title or right to possession, or upholds his own taking or unlawful detention." 66 Am.Jur.2d, Replevin, § 47 at 864 (1973) (footnotes omitted).
For example, in Untermann v. Untermann, 43 N.J.Super. 106, 109 (App.Div. 1956), certif. den. 23 N.J. 363 (1957), while the court stated that the doctrine of unclean hands may bar a cause of action for separate maintenance, it also observed that this defense was an aspect or application of the broader equitable principle that "he who seeks equity must do equity"; hence, the defendant in such an action could under certain circumstances be estopped to raise the defense.
E.g., Nelson v. Wolf, 4 N.J. 76, 79-80 (1950) (an "owner may be estopped from setting up his own title and the lack of title in the vendor as against a bona fide purchaser for value where the owner has clothed the vendor with possession and other indicia of title"); see James Talcott, Inc. v. Associates Discount Corp., 302 F.2d 443, 447 (8 Cir.1962) (Blackmun, J.) (under Arkansas law estoppel is defense to action to recover for wrongful resale of goods initially transferred to vendor by conditional sale); Zendman v. Harry Winston, Inc., 305 N.Y. 180, 184-188, 111 N.E.2d 871, 873-875 (Ct.App. 1953) (under New Jersey law, estoppel defense invocable by purchaser where owner vested vendor with apparent authority to dispose of or sell the particular chattel); Hertz Corp. v. Hardy, 197 Pa.Super. 466, 471-476, 178 A.2d 833, 836-838 (Super.Ct. 1962) (estoppel is an affirmative defense to an action for replevin of rented automobile which has been wrongfully sold to defendants; here, however, defendant bona fide purchaser had not relied on anything that plaintiff did and thus the equitable estoppel defense must fail).
In Porter v. Wertz, supra, plaintiffs had loaned a  Utrillo painting to a potential purchaser thereof pending a decision as to whether or not to purchase it; that individual, however, proceeded to sell the painting to a delicatessen employee who in turn sold it to a gallery which then resold it to a buyer who took the painting to Venezuela. 68 A.D.2d at 142-145, 416 N.Y.S.2d at 255-256.
They appropriately require the fullest exposure of all facets of the controversy: the uniqueness of the chattels — paintings created by a renowned artist whose artworks have in general grown greatly in value; the theft or mysterious disappearance of these paintings several decades ago; the subsequent possession and enjoyment of the paintings by the Frank family; Frank's subsequent attempts to sell the paintings, and their eventual acquisition by Snyder; the experience and status of Snyder in the art world, and whether he sufficiently investigated the provenance of the O'Keeffe paintings and acted with commensurate due care and reasonable prudence when he purchased them. The difficulties caused by the lengthy interim between the original disappearance of the paintings and their ultimate surfacing in Snyder's gallery also has a definite bearing upon the equities in this case. These considerations, I believe,  should be given direct application as constituent elements of the primary claims and the affirmative defenses of the parties rather than be given at most, as required by the majority opinion, oblique application as an aspect of the discovery rule relevant only as to whether O'Keeffe is entitled to assert a claim for the stolen paintings.
For these reasons, I dissent 