In what may be the largest class action ever attempted in federal court, the district court in this case embarked "on a road certainly less traveled, if ever taken at all," Castano v. American Tobacco Co., 160 F.R.D.
Without any specific analysis regarding the multitude of issues that make up "core liability," the court found that under Jenkins v. Raymark Indus., 782 F.2d 468 (5th Cir.1986), common issues predominate because resolution of core liability issues would significantly advance the individual cases.
The court did not discuss why "core liability" issues would be a significant, rather than just common, part of each individual trial, nor why the individual issues in the remaining categories did not predominate over the common "core liability" issues.
The court determined that it would be premature to hold that individual reliance issues predominate over common issues.
2140, 40 L.Ed.2d 732 (1974), the court stated that it could not inquire into the merits of the plaintiffs' claim to determine whether reliance would be an issue in individual trials.
The court also deferred substantial consideration of how variations in state law would affect predominance.
The court noted that any determination of how state law variations affect predominance was premature, as the court had yet to make a choice of law determination.
The court also concluded that a class action is superior to other methods for adjudication of the core liability issues.
As to compensatory damages and the claim for medical monitoring, the court concluded that such claims were so intertwined with proximate cause and affirmative defenses that class certification would not materially advance the individual cases.
Punitive Damages In certifying punitive damages for class treatment, the court adopted the plaintiffs' trial plan for punitive damages: The class jury would develop a ratio of punitive damages to actual damages, and the court would apply that ratio in individual cases.
See Georgine v. Amchem Prods., 83 F.3d 610, 618 (3d Cir.1996) (decertifying class because legal and factual differences in the plaintiffs' claims "when exponentially magnified by choice of law considerations, eclipse any common issues in this case"); American Medical Sys., 75 F.3d at 1085 (granting mandamus in a multi-state products liability action, in part because "[t]he district court ... failed to consider how the law of negligence differs from jurisdiction to jurisdiction").
A district court's duty to determine whether the plaintiff has borne its burden on class certification requires that a court consider variations in state law when a class action involves multiple jurisdictions.
The able opinion in School Asbestos demonstrates what is required from a district court when variations in state law exist.
The court acknowledged as much in its order granting class certification, for, in declining to make a choice of law determination, it noted that "[t]he parties have only briefly addressed the conflict of laws issue in this matter."
Id. The district court's review of state law variances can hardly be considered extensive; it conducted a cursory review of state law variations and gave short shrift to the defendants' arguments concerning variations.
In response to the defendants' extensive analysis of how state law varied on fraud, products liability, affirmative defenses, negligent infliction of emotional distress, consumer protection statutes, and punitive damages, the court examined a sample phase 1  jury interrogatory and verdict form, a survey of medical monitoring decisions, a survey of consumer fraud class actions, and a survey of punitive damages law in the defendants' home states.
The court also relied on two district court opinions granting certification in multistate class actions.
The court also failed to perform its duty to determine whether the class action would be manageable in light of state law variations.
B. Predominance The district court's second error was that it failed to consider how the plaintiffs' addiction claims would be tried, individually or on a class basis.
The premise of the court's opinion is a citation to Jenkins and a conclusion that class treatment of common issues would significantly advance the individual trials.
The court just assumed that because the common issues would play a part in every trial, they must be significant. The court's synthesis of Jenkins and Eisen would write the predominance requirement out of the rule, and any common issue would predominate if it were common to all the individual trials. The court's treatment of the fraud claim also demonstrates the error inherent in its approach. According to both the advisory committee's notes to Rule 23(b)(3) and this court's decision in Simon v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., 482 F.2d 880 (5th Cir.1973), a fraud class action cannot be certified when individual reliance will be an issue.
The district court avoided the reach of this court's decision in Simon by an erroneous reading of Eisen; the court refused to consider whether reliance would be an issue in individual trials.
The problem with the district court's approach is that after the class trial, it might have decided that reliance must be proven in individual trials.
The court then would have been faced with the difficult choice of decertifying the class after phase 1 and wasting judicial resources, or continuing with a class action that would have failed the predominance requirement of rule 23(b)(3).  III.
The district court's rationale for certification in spite of such problems — i.e., that a class trial would preserve judicial resources in the millions of inevitable individual trials — is based on pure speculation.
What the district court failed to consider, and what no court can determine at this time, is the very real possibility that the judicial crisis may fail to materialize. The plaintiffs'  claims are based on a new theory of liability and the existence of new evidence.
As he stated in the record, plaintiffs' counsel in this case has promised to inundate the courts with individual claims if class certification is denied.
So too here, we cannot say that it would be a waste to allow individual trials to proceed, before a district court engages in the complicated predominance and superiority analysis necessary to certify a class.
The risk that a district court will make the wrong guess, that the parties will engage in years of litigation, and that the class ultimately will be decertified (because reliance predominates over common issues) prevents this class action from being a superior method of adjudication.
In order to manage so many individual issues, the district court proposed to empanel a class jury to adjudicate common issues.
The district court abused its discretion by ignoring variations in state law and how a trial on the alleged causes of action would be tried.
For the forgoing reasons, we REVERSE and REMAND with instructions that the district court dismiss the class complaint 