On June 30, 1993, Guaranteed Systems, defending against National Can's counterclaim, answered and, pursuant to Rule 14(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, filed a third-party action against sub-contractor R.K. Elite-HydroVac Services, Inc. ("HydroVac"), alleging claims for indemnity and contribution for any amount that may be determined to be owed to National Can by Guaranteed Systems as a result of the counterclaim initiated by National Can. DISCUSSION Federal courts may exercise original jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1331 over cases involving a federal question or pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1332 ("the diversity statute") over cases involving citizens of different states, that is, those cases in which the parties are "diverse."
If that action is within their jurisdiction solely on the basis of diversity, federal courts may not exercise supplemental jurisdiction over certain claims, including claims by plaintiffs against persons made parties under Rule 14 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, when so doing would be inconsistent with the jurisdictional requirements of 28 U.S.C. 1332, for instance, when the plaintiff and the other party are non- diverse.
The disputed issue is whether the court may exercise supplemental jurisdiction over the third-party state law claim between Plaintiff and Third-Party Defendant, whom Plaintiff, defending the counterclaim, has impleaded for indemnity or contribution in accordance with Rule 14(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, when Plaintiff and Third-Party Defendant are nondiverse parties.
The principal rationale of both Owen and Section 1367(b) is to prevent a plaintiff from "evad[ing] the jurisdictional requirements of 28 U.S.C. 1332 by the simple expedient of naming initially only those defendants whose joinder satisfies section 1332's requirements and later adding claims not within original federal jurisdiction against other defendants who have intervened or been joined on a supplemental basis."
The court therefore will grant Third-Party Defendant's motion to dismiss.