Kotis also called Nowlin's Jewelry that same day and spoke with Cherie Nowlin. Ms. Nowlin told Kotis that Sitton had purchased the watch the day before.
Kotis filed a counterclaim for a declaration that Kotis was a good faith purchaser of the watch and was entitled to possession and title of the watch.
The trial court also filed Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. In point of error one, Kotis claims the trial court erred in concluding that Sitton did not receive the watch through a transaction of purchase with Nowlin, within the meaning of Tex.Bus. & Com.Code Ann. ยง 2.403(a).
Thus, Kotis maintains that the transaction between Sitton and Nowlin was a transaction of purchase such that Sitton acquired the ability to transfer good title to a good faith purchaser under ยง 2.403.
In point of error two, Kotis contends the trial court erred in concluding that, at the time Sitton sold the watch to Kotis, Sitton did not have at least voidable title to the watch.
In point of error three, Kotis claims the trial court erred in concluding that Kotis did not give sufficient value for the watch to receive protection under ยง 2.403, that Kotis did not take good title to the watch as a good faith purchaser, that Kotis did not receive good title to the watch, and that Kotis is not entitled to the watch under ยง 2.403.
In points of error four through eight, Kotis challenges the trial court's findings regarding his good faith, his honesty in fact, and his actual belief, and the reasonableness of the belief, that the watch had been received unlawfully.
Ms. Nowlin testified that Kotis told her he did not want the watch because he already owned a Rolex. Ms. Nowlin told Kotis that Sitton had purchased the watch the day before.
There are sufficient facts to uphold the trial court's findings even if the judge had accepted as true Kotis' testimony that, despite his statements to Nowlin's, he had already purchased the watch when he called Nowlin's. The testimony indicated that Kotis was familiar with the price of Rolex watches and that $3,550.00 was an extremely low price for a mint condition watch of this type.
In point of error twelve, Kotis challenges the trial court's conclusion that Nowlin's was entitled to possession of the watch and that Kotis is not entitled to possession or title to the watch.
Having upheld the trial court's finding that Kotis was not a good faith purchaser, we must also uphold the trial court's finding that Nowlin's, and not Kotis, is entitled to possession and title to the watch.
Having upheld the trial court's conclusions that Kotis was not a good faith purchaser and was not entitled to possession and title to the watch, we need not address this point.
JUNELL, J., not participating 