Defendant advances two grounds in support of this motion: 1) defective service of process on defendant pursuant to Rule 4(d) (3), (7) of the  Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; and 2)·defendant's excusable neglect, mistake or inadvertence pursuant to Rule 60(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Finally, and in the alternative, defendant seeks to have the. default judgment set aside to the extent of the amount of damages awarded, and requests an inquest to determine separately the amount of damages to which plaintiff is entitled.
This court, however, rejects this contention since it finds that service on defendant was properly executed in accordance with Rules 4(d)(3), (7). 10 Rule 4(d)(3) provides in relevant part: 11 "Service shall be made as follows: "(3) Upon a domestic or foreign corporation or upon a partnership or other unincorporated association which is subject to suit under a common name, by delivering a copy of the summons and of the complaint to an officer, a managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service of process and, if the agent is one... authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the defendant." 12 Rule 4(d)(7) provides in relevant part: 13 "(7) Upon a defendant of any class referred to in paragraph (1) or (3) of this subdivision of this Rule, it is also sufficient if the summons and complaint are served in the manner prescribed by the statute of the United States or in the manner prescribed by the law of the state in which the district court is held for the service of summons or other like process upon any such defendant in an action brought in the courts of general jurisdiction of that state." 14  Rule 4(d)(3) has been liberally construed by the courts and, as interpreted, does not ,require rigid formalism.
16 Next, defendant argues that the default judgment should be set aside for the reason that the loss of the summons and complaint constitutes "excusable neglect" pursuant to Rule 60(b) (1) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Rule 60(b)(l) provides: 17 "On motion and upon such terms as are just, the court may relieve a party or his legal representative from a final judgment, order, or proceeding for the following reasons: (1) mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect .
20 Finally, defendant requests an inquest to determine the amount of damages for the cargo loss and damage, claiming that the judgment was not based upon a "sum certain" as required by Rule 55(b) (1) of the Federal Rules of, Civil Procedure. It is well-established that a default judgment may· be entered only for a "sum certain."
Defendant's request for an inquest to determine. the amount of damages recoverable by plaintiff is granted 