ISSUES Landlord raises three issues for our review, which we restate as:     (1) Whether the exclusive-remedy provision of the lease between Landlord and the MCPO barred the MCPO from asserting that it was evicted by acts or omissions of the Landlord;     (2) Whether the trial court's findings that the MCPO was both actually evicted and constructively evicted were clearly erroneous; and     (3) Whether a provision limiting the MCPO's time to sue barred the MCPO's defenses and counterclaims.
FACTS AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY On June 2, 1999, then Marion County Prosecutor Scott C. Newman, executed a lease on behalf of the MCPO with Lombard Associate Limited Partnership (Lombard) to lease the basement of the Victoria Centre in Indianapolis, Indiana (the Lease). Sometime thereafter, Lombard sold the Victoria Centre to Landlord and assigned the Lease to Landlord. The MCPO's Grand Jury Division used the leased premises as its office and evidence storage space.
Also, January 2003, was the last month that the MCPO paid rent to Landlord, leaving three years and eleven months, or $380,477.37, unpaid according to the terms of the Lease. On February 23, 2004, Landlord filed a Complaint against the MCPO, alleging that the MCPO breached the Lease, and sought the damages provided under the Lease. The MCPO filed its answer on April 14, 2004, asserting affirmative defenses and a counterclaim premised on a wrongful eviction theory.
The trial court's judgment held that: (1) the MCPO's defenses and counterclaim were not barred by the Lease's exclusive-remedy provisions; (2) the MCPO was "actually" evicted in October 2002 and then "constructively" evicted in January 2003; and (3) assuming the Landlord could recover against the MCPO, the Landlord did not mitigate its damages reasonably.
Id. II. Exclusive-Remedy Provision Landlord argues that the trial court's judgment is clearly erroneous because it ignored the exclusive-remedy provision of the Lease by concluding that the MCPO had been constructively evicted.
Landlord encourages us to apply Simon Property Group, L.P. v. Michigan Sporting Goods Distributors, Inc., 837 N.E.2d 1058 (Ind.Ct.App.2005), trans. denied, and conclude that the remedy provision of the Lease is exclusive and bars any other remedy, such as the one utilized by the trial court.
III. Eviction A. The Effects of Eviction on Obligations Under the Lease The trial court found that the MCPO was actually evicted from the leased premises beginning in October of 2002, and was then constructively evicted as of January 28, 2003, due to repeated and un-remedied water intrusions.
However, we find that it is unnecessary to resort to a consideration of public policy to determine this dispute since the unambiguous terms of the exclusive-remedy provision did not prohibit Landlord from evicting the MCPO. The exclusive-remedy provision limited only the MCPO's ability to "terminate this Lease or withhold, setoff or abate any rent due thereunder."
Therefore, since we conclude below that the trial court's findings that the MCPO had been wrongfully evicted were not clearly erroneously, we hold that it was the Landlord's own act or omission that resulted in extinguishing MCPO's future rent payment obligations.
In reviewing the record, we observe that the trial court concluded that Landlord actually evicted the MCPO in October of 2002 when "Landlord informed the [MCPO] to refrain from using those portions of the leased space `most vulnerable to water.'"
Talbot v. Citizens Nat. Bank of Evansville, 389 F.2d 207, 210 (7th Cir.1968). In challenging the trial court's conclusion of eviction, Landlord first urges us to discredit those findings because the trial court adopted its findings of fact nearly verbatim from the proposed findings of the MCPO. In support of his argument, Landlord cites to Prowell v. State, 741 N.E.2d 704, 708-09 (Ind.2001), in which our supreme court stated:     It is not uncommon for a trial court to enter findings that are verbatim reproductions of submissions by the prevailing party.
Further, Landlord argues that testimony by employees or agents of the MCPO, stating that each incident of water intrusions and related problems were temporary or eventually fixed, is uncontroverted evidence which shows that the trial court's findings of both actual and constructive eviction are clearly erroneous.
Moreover, it was Landlord who suggested to the MCPO that it should move evidence and materials out of areas of the leased premises that were vulnerable to water, showing the Landlord's acknowledgement that water leaks would recur.
Additionally, this evidence supports the trial court's findings that the MCPO was deprived of a material part of the leased premises by these water intrusions and related problems.
However, since we have concluded that the trial court did not commit clear error when it found that the MCPO had been evicted, and that such eviction ended the MCPO's obligation to pay rent, we cannot say that the MCPO could be barred from asserting such a legal defense.
Therefore, we interpret this provision defining "Tenant's Time to Sue" as barring the MCPO from initiating an action more than one year after an alleged action or omission by the Landlord. Thus, we conclude since it was the Landlord who brought this action, the MCPO's defense and counterclaim were not barred by the Lease. CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons we conclude that (1) the exclusive-remedy provision of the Lease did not bar the MCPO from asserting a wrongful eviction defense; (2) the trial court's findings that the MCPO had been both constructively evicted and actually evicted were not clearly erroneous; and (3) the provision of the Lease defining the MCPO's time to sue did not bar the MCPO from asserting wrongful eviction as a defense or bringing counterclaims when the Landlord initiated the action.
Affirmed 