Nonetheless, Continental Can Company insists that when a majority of a pension fund's assets come from firms engaged in the trucking business, contributing employers qualify for a treatment that is available only if "substantially all of the contributions required under the plan are made by employers primarily engaged in the long and short haul trucking industry", 29 U.S.C. § 1383(d)(2).
When Continental Can employed truck drivers to transport some of its goods in the Chicago area it made pension contributions to the Chicago Truck Drivers Pension Fund. Continental closed its trucking operation in July 1985 and withdrew from the Pension Fund, which demanded that it make good its share of the Fund's under-fundedness — as it must, 29 U.S.C. §§ 1381, 1391, unless "substantially all" of the Fund's assets come from "employers primarily engaged in the long and short haul trucking industry".
Representative Thompson, the floor manager, commented on this particular change: The [Senate] bill also contains a special withdrawal liability rule for certain trucking industry plans where substantially all of the contributions are made by employers primarily engaged in the long and short haul trucking industry, the household goods moving industry or the public warehousing industry.
The phrase "substantially all" appears in several provisions of the tax laws — including the industrial development bond and the private foundation rules — where the Internal Revenue Service has interpreted the phrase to mean at least 85 percent.
It is our intent that, as used in this special trucking industry withdrawal liability rule, the substantially all requirement would only be satisfied where at least 85 percent of the contributions to the plan are made by employers who are primarily engaged in the specified industries. 126 Cong.Rec. 23040 (Aug. 25, 1980).
In a text sandwiched between two "speeches" marked by a • (indicating that the remarks were inserted after the debate rather than delivered on the floor) Sen. Durenberger explained why special treatment for the trucking industry is appropriate and added: [I]t should be observed that if the majority of the contributions to any pension plan are made by employers engaged in over the road (long) and short haul trucking ... this withdrawal liability procedure will apply to all employers who contribute to such a plan. 126 Cong.Rec. 23286-87 (Aug. 26, 1980).
This remark, coming after both House and Senate had agreed to the language of § 4203(d)(2), is the first time anyone implied that "substantially all" means "majority".
I found out that on the very day that I clarified the intent of this special withdrawal liability procedure for the trucking industry, Mr. Thompson told the House of Representatives that this special rule would only apply if at least  85 percent of the contributions to the plan were made by employers previously engaged in the specified industries.
Therefore, as a final clarification, I will reiterate that the withdrawal liability procedure will apply to any multiemployer pension plan in the trucking industry if the majority (50. percent) of contributions to the plan are made by employers who are primarily engaged in the long- and short-haul trucking industry, the household goods moving industry, or the public warehousing industry.
The Senate, and then the House, and the Senate once again, passed § 4203(d)(2) without knowing Senator Durenberger's belief that "substantially all" means 50.1%.
If English contained a word (say, "pepti") meaning "multiemployer pension plans other than those to which firms in the trucking industry make 85% of the contributions", Congress could have said: "Any employer withdrawing from an under-funded pepti must make up its share of the shortfall."
 Prussner v. CIR, 896 F.2d 218, 226 (7th Cir.1990) (in banc); Railway Labor Executives' Ass'n v. ICC, 894 F.2d 915, 918 (7th Cir.1990). To see this, suppose that Congress had created an exclusion if "85% of the contributions required under the plan are made by employers primarily engaged in the long and short haul trucking industry", and the committee reports contained a prediction that this would exclude two-thirds of the industry.
If § 4203(d)(2) applied when "substantially all of the contributions required under the plan are made [on behalf of employees] primarily engaged in the long and short haul trucking industry" (altered language in brackets), then the Chicago Truck Drivers Pension Fund would qualify for the exception, as would many other plans.
The language Congress chose excludes the Chicago Truck Drivers Pension Fund. AFFIRMED 