Plaintiff A.F.A. Tours, Inc., doing business as Alumni Flights Abroad ("AFA"), appeals from a final judgment of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Vincent L. Broderick, Judge, dismissing for lack of subject matter jurisdiction this diversity action against defendant Desmond Whitchurch for misappropriation of trade secrets.
The district court summarily dismissed the complaint on the ground that it would not be possible for AFA to prove damages amounting to more than $50,000.
I. BACKGROUND According to the complaint, AFA operates a travel and tour business, specializing in deluxe tours for United States residents to overseas destinations including Australia, New Zealand, and New Guinea. It expended large sums of money and invested significant time and labor to develop, inter alia, a client and customer list, marketing information, and tour information.
AFA commenced the present diversity action in the district court for misappropriation of its trade secrets, seeking an injunction against any use by Whitchurch of confidential AFA information, and damages "in an amount which is not presently ascertainable, but which is believed to exceed the sum of $50,000.00."
Whitchurch's supporting affidavits stated, inter alia, that, though Whitchurch had led an average of seven AFA tours per year for 17 years, he had had no written contract with AFA. He stated that AFA had never informed him that the customer names were confidential, or should not be  shared with others, or should be returned to AFA upon Whitchurch's resignation.
Rather, he stated, AFA had freely disseminated lists of the names and addresses of its customers to "countless individuals and entities," including hotels, booking and travel agents, and the tour participants themselves.
In response to the court's jurisdictional question, Whitchurch's attorney stated that Whitchurch, in soliciting for his planned tour, had written to 100-200 former AFA  tour participants but had received favorable responses from only two.
I will also be available to arrange special interest tours to the South Pacific." AFA's attorney, noting that over the years Whitchurch had escorted some 1,500 AFA clients on tours and had indicated that he would conduct a number of tours, argued that AFA's damages would be substantial.
Though the court styled its decision as one granting summary judgment and stated that it had a "very serious question" as to whether the AFA lists were trade secrets, it did not purport to resolve that question.
If there were no repeat customers among the persons Whitchurch escorted, he could have escorted some 1,785 AFA tour participants (119 × 15).
If a tour operator could earn 17% of the price of a tour, and if Whitchurch were eventually successful in soliciting even 30 of the approximately 1,500 AFA participants  he has escorted (i.e., 2%, which may reflect the ratio of his success on his first attempt), the profit he could siphon from AFA would total $51,000.
Presumably such an injunction would include a prohibition against Whitchurch's sale or disclosure of the names and addresses of AFA's customers to other tour operators who might be better equipped than Whitchurch to exploit the information and attract more than 2% of the persons whose names Whitchurch could provide them.
As set forth in Part I above, in opposition to Whitchurch's motion for summary judgment, AFA submitted several affidavits describing both the efforts it had made to develop a customer list that was not available from any other source, and efforts it had made to prevent dissemination of the names on that list except to persons actually participating in the tours and persons who needed to know those names in order to service the AFA tours.
The judgment is vacated, and the matter is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with the foregoing 