On the basis of this information, the Army suspended Pruitt's promotion to Major pending an investigation to determine whether Pruitt should be separated from the Army Reserve pursuant to AR 135-175, which mandates the discharge of homosexual service-members.
On April 17, 1984, the Army advised Pruitt of its intention to revoke her security clearance on the ground that "substantial evidence of record [supports the conclusion] that you are a practicing homosexual (lesbian) as defined by paragraph 2-38, AR 135-175."
Although the record is clear that Pruitt is homosexual, there is no evidence in this case that she engaged in homosexual acts, or made any advance toward any active or reserve soldier that might be construed as homosexual conduct.
The Board accepted into evidence the following: Pruitt's Complaint for Declaratory Relief filed April 4, 1983 (in which she declared she was homosexual); the Los Angeles Times article; the letter of May 16, 1984 in which Pruitt explicitly informed the Army of her homosexuality; and Pruitt's military record.
The Board concluded that Pruitt was a homosexual within the meaning of AR 135-175, and recommended that she be honorably discharged.
STANDARD OF REVIEW The district court's denial of Pruitt's motion for summary judgment and granting    of the Army's motion to dismiss present questions of law which we review de novo.
First Amendment Claim Pruitt characterizes her involuntary discharge as a violation of her rights to free speech guaranteed by the first amendment.
Under the Army's regulation, a member may be discharged for stating that he or she is homosexual even absent proof of homosexual conduct, AR 135-175,  39.
The Army did not discharge Pruitt because she spoke candidly about her sexuality to a newspaper.
The Army discharged Pruitt because she admitted to being homosexual, and AR 135-175,  39 through 2-44, require separation of homosexual officers from the armed forces.
That it was her homosexuality, and not her speech, that caused Pruitt to be discharged is apparent from the subsection of the regulation under which she was discharged.
Pruitt admitted homosexuality and was discharged for it.
The question is whether the Army is entitled to discharge her for her homosexuality —an issue not encompassed by Pruitt's first amendment claim.
Instead, the Army argues that its right to discharge homosexual servicepersons is so firmly supported in the law that any equal protection claim that Pruitt has asserted or might assert is legally insufficient on its face.
Pruitt does not dispute that the Army can discharge members for at least certain kinds of homosexual conduct, but she alleges that she was discharged for her status, with no evidence of conduct.
Here the case was dismissed on motion; the Army has submitted no evidence justifying its regulation, and Pruitt has had no opportunity to dispute that evidence.
It is true that we found the discrimination against homosexuals in that case to have a rational basis, but it is clear that we applied the type of "active" rational basis review employed by the Supreme Court in    City of Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473 U.S. 432, 105 S.Ct.
In High Tech Gays, we relied on Cleburne and performed the same type of review to see whether the government had established on the record a rational basis for the challenged discrimination.
Neither case supports the contention of the Army here that its far more rigid discrimination against homosexuals should be held to be rational as a matter of law, without any justification in the record at all.
The Army does not argue —and the district court did not hold— that the Mindes test precludes review here.
The district court erred, however, in dismissing Pruitt's action on the ground that her complaint failed to state a claim for relief.
AFFIRMED IN PART, REVERSED IN PART, AND REMANDED 