ยง 1983 action as a class action on behalf of themselves and others against defendant-appellee Sidetex Company, Inc. ("Sidetex") and its attorney, defendant-appellee Steven Rolnick. In their complaint,  the Shaumyans alleged that the defendants deprived them of their property rights without due process by attaching their home pursuant to Connecticut's prejudgment attachment statute, Conn.Gen.Stat.
Section 52-278e(a)(1) permits a plaintiff to attach a defendant's real property in the absence of a predeprivation hearing and without requiring that the plaintiff post a security bond.
In a subsequent opinion, the district court reconsidered its prior decision in light of the Supreme Court's decision in Connecticut v. Doehr, ___ U.S. ___, 111 S.Ct.
Sidetex retained Steven Rolnick, who applied for an ex parte prejudgment attachment writ against the Shaumyans' home, pursuant to section 52-278e(a)(1), by submitting an affidavit of probable cause and a copy of Sidetex's complaint to a Connecticut Superior Court judge on July 28, 1987.
On appeal, we remanded the case to the district court for reconsideration in light of the Supreme Court's opinion in Connecticut v. Doehr, ___ U.S. ___, 111 S.Ct.
2105, 115 L.Ed.2d 1 (1991), affirming our decision in Pinsky v. Duncan, 898 F.2d 852 (2d Cir.1990), that Connecticut's prejudgment attachment statute was unconstitutional as applied to intentional tortfeasors.
The statute also does not require a plaintiff to post a security bond to insure the payment of damages that a defendant may suffer if the attachment is later found to be wrongly issued or the claim proves to be unsuccessful.
The statute also provides for notice to be given to the defendant after the attachment, informing him that he has the right to a postdeprivation hearing: to claim that no probable cause existed to sustain the claim; to request that the attachment be vacated, modified or that a bond be substituted; or to claim that some portion of the attached property was exempt from the execution.
In its decision, the Court noted that the statute: required a creditor to present a fact-specific affidavit to a judge; required a creditor to post a security bond; required the judge to hold a postdeprivation hearing immediately; and allowed the debtor to regain interim possession of the property by filing a substitute bond.
In the same year that it decided Mitchell, the Court affirmed without opinion Spielman-Fond, Inc. v. Hanson's, Inc., 379 F.Supp. 997 (D.Ariz.1973) (per curiam), aff'd mem., 417 U.S. 901, 94 S.Ct.
The Doehr Court applied the three-prong test first articulated in Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335, 96 S.Ct.
In applying the third prong of its test, the Doehr Court found that the plaintiff had no existing interest in the defendant's real property  when he sought the attachment.
Five members of the Doehr Court declined to address the issue of whether the failure of section 52-278e(a)(1) to require that a plaintiff post a security bond violated the Due Process Clause.
The Shaumyans first argue that section 52-278e(a)(1) is unconstitutional on its face because it fails to provide for a predeprivation hearing, as the Doehr Court required in intentional tort cases.
The Shaumyans also argue that section 52-278e(a)(1) is unconstitutional because it does not require a plaintiff to post a security bond.
A similar argument was made by the defendants in Pinsky v. Duncan, 898 F.2d 852 (2d Cir.1990), aff'd sub nom., Connecticut v. Doehr, ___ U.S. ___, 111 S.Ct.
In Pinsky, the concurring and dissenting judges agreed that the failure of section 52-278e(a)(1) to require the plaintiff to post a security bond was not constitutionally defective because a defendant whose property had been wrongfully attached could bring a counterclaim for damages under Connecticut's vexatious litigation statute, Conn.Gen.Stat.
Thus, although the standard of liability articulated by the DeLaurentis court apparently would limit the number of debtors who could bring vexatious litigation suits against creditors who attached their real property pursuant to section 52-278e(a)(1), plaintiffs like the Shaumyans may still utilize Connecticut's vexatious litigation statute to protect their interests in the absence of a security bond.
In holding that a security bond need not be posted in connection with a prejudgment attachment, we rely on the language of the Doehr plurality, the conclusion reached by the concurring and dissenting opinions in Pinsky and the absence of a bond requirement in the mechanic's lien statutes of Connecticut and other states.
In Doehr, the plurality found the statute to be defective for the additional reason that it failed to require the posting of a security bond in intentional tort cases.
We also find support in Chief Justice Rehnquist's observation in Doehr that due process would not mandate that a mechanic's lien statute like the one in Spielman-Fond require the posting of a security bond.
Because Sidetex used section 52-278e(a)(1) to achieve the same results that it could have achieved under Connecticut's mechanic's lien statute, see ante at pp. 127-28 n. 2, we see no reason why due process would require it to post a bond in one instance but not in the other.
Therefore, we hold that the failure of section 52-278e(a)(1) to require Sidetex to post a security bond does not violate the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We agree, and affirm the judgment of the district court in all respects 