Upon a motion by appellees for partial summary judgment, the district court dismissed appellants' claims for sleep time compensation, holding that the claim was barred by the FLSA's three-year statute of limitations, and dismissed appellants' individual capacity claims against appellees, concluding that in their individual capacities, appellees were not FLSA employers.
§ 255(a), since they were not challenging the implementation of the pay system, but rather contended that each paycheck they received under the new pay system constituted a continuing violation of the FLSA and allowed them to recover for violations occurring during the  limitations period.
Appellees contended, and the district court agreed, that appellants' claim for sleep time compensation was time-barred since appellants' claim was based on a singular, discrete act — the City's implementation of a pay system based on allegedly void waivers — which occurred more than three years prior to appellants' filing suit.
The court likewise concluded that as to those employees who held the position of fire captain at the time the new pay plan was implemented, their claims that they were not properly classified and treated as exempt employees were time-barred.
The issue in a case such as this, where a claim is made that a continuing violation has occurred so as to, in effect, extend the time for filing suit, "is whether the reduction in pay was a single act of discrimination under the FLSA, hence barred by its three year statute of limitations, or whether the reduction effected in each subsequent paycheck constitutes a violation of the Act, thus making the complaint timely, at least in part."
Appellants cite Halferty v. Pulse Drug Co., 821 F.2d 261, modified on other grounds, 826 F.2d 2 (5th Cir.1987), for the proposition that a challenge to a pay system under FLSA inherently charges a continuing violation.
The district court found Halferty inapposite, and resolved instead that this court's holding in Hendrix v. Yazoo City, 911 F.2d 1102 (5th Cir.1990), was "logically applicable."
 The district court properly concluded that Hendrix, rather than Halferty, provides the applicable analogy.
498, 66 L.Ed.2d 431 (1980) (where the only alleged discrimination occurred at the time plaintiff was denied tenure, the statute of limitations commenced at the time of that decision, even though the effects of the denial of tenure did not occur until later); United Air Lines, Inc. v. Evans, 431 U.S. 553, 97 S.Ct.
As the district court aptly stated: [T]he types of violations are distinguishable as those where the employer moves from one facially valid system of pay to another valid system of pay in an improper manner or at a prohibited time, a single statutory violation, and those where an employer implements a facially invalid system and continues to pay compensation under the facially invalid system, a continuing violation.
Applying this analysis, the district court concluded that the City had simply "move[d] to a facially valid postFLSA policy from the pre-FLSA facially valid policy...." While appellants acknowledge the significance of facial neutrality in determining whether application of a policy will be found to constitute a continuing violation, they contend that the district court erred in concluding that the City's post-Garcia pay policy was facially valid.
In the court's opinion, however, the district court properly construed the FLSA agreements or waivers as an integral part of the City's pay policy and concluded that the policy  was facially valid.
The sole basis for appellants' seeking to impose liability against the City for sleep time compensation is their claim that the City, in the course of devising the new pay policy, coerced them, in August 1985, to relinquish their FLSA rights under threat of termination and thereafter, in October 1985, implemented a pay system predicated on those waivers.
232, 93 L.Ed.2d 158 (1986), for defining precisely when the act or acts of discrimination occurred, the district court concluded, and properly so, that there was a single violation which took place at the time the City's post-Garcia pay plan was activated.
 Appellants maintain that the district court erred in failing to recognize their claim under state law for breach of their employment contracts, which they maintain would be governed by Mississippi's sixyear statute of limitations for causes of action predicated on contracts of employment.
The allegation, in short, simply formed a part of the basis for their claim that the City violated FLSA, and therefore, the court's conclusion that the FLSA statute of limitations operates to bar appellants' claims relating to the City's implementation of the new pay policy necessarily disposes of any state law issues.
See Peavey Co. v. M/V ANPA, 971 F.2d 1168, 1174 (5th Cir.1992) (district court's factual findings will be deemed clearly erroneous only if the reviewing court is "left with a definite and firm conviction that a mistake has been made").
Rock v. Huffco Gas & Oil Co., 922 F.2d 272, 281 (5th Cir.1991)  (district court's conclusion based on weighing of relevant factors under residual exception to hearsay rule will be reversed only if clearly erroneous); In re Sealed Case, 877 F.2d at 98081 (determination of extent of waiver of privilege depends heavily on factual context in which privilege is asserted and will be reviewed for abuse of discretion).
Appellants argue that the district court was precluded from excluding the expert's testimony as a sanction for their having failed to respond to discovery requests, since they did provide responses to the City's expert interrogatories and the City never moved to compel any further response.
See Broadcast Music, Inc. v. Xanthas, Inc., 855 F.2d 233, 238 (5th Cir.1988) ("Sanctions such as estoppel may be imposed under Rule 37(b) for failure to produce documents only when the court has entered an order compelling discovery.").
1982) ("trial court has wide discretion to admit or exclude expert testimony, and only if we determine that a ruling is manifestly erroneous may we find that discretion abused"); see also Branch-Hines v. Hebert, 939 F.2d 1311, 1319 (5th Cir.1991) ("trial court is afforded much discretion in deciding whether to admit or deny testimony").
These issues have been rendered moot by this court's conclusion that the district court properly dismissed the claims for sleep time pay, coupled with the jury's verdict for the City on appellants' claim for compensation for sleep interrupted time.
The judgment of the district court is AFFIRMED 