The single question in this case is whether tomatoes,
considered as provisions, are to be classed as
"vegetables" or as "fruit," within the meaning of the
Tariff Act of 1883.
The only witnesses called at the trial testified that
neither "vegetables" nor "fruit" had any special meaning
in trade or commerce, different from that given in the
dictionaries; and that they had the same meaning in
trade to-day that they had in March, 1883.
The passages cited from the dictionaries define the word
"fruit" as the seed of plants, or that part of plants which
contains the seed, and especially the juicy, pulpy
products of certain plants, covering and containing the
seed. These definitions have no tendency to show that
tomatoes are "fruit," as distinguished from "vegetables,"
in common speech, or within the meaning of the Tariff
Act.
There being no evidence that the words "fruit" and
"vegetables" have acquired any special meaning in trade
or commerce, they must receive their ordinary meaning.
Of that [149 U.S. 307] meaning the court is bound to
take judicial notice, as it does in regard to all words in
our own tongue; and upon such a question dictionaries
are admitted, not as evidence, but only as aids to the
memory and understanding of the court. Brown v.
Piper, 91 U.S. 37, 42; Jones v. United States, 137 U.S.
202, 216; Nelson v. Cushing, 2 Cush. 519, 532, 533; Page
v. Fawcet, 1 Leon. 242; Taylor on Evidence, (8th ed.) §§
16, 21.
Botanically speaking, tomatoes are the fruit of a vine,
just as are cucumbers, squashes, beans and peas. But in
the common language of the people, whether sellers or
consumers of provisions, all these are vegetables, which
are grown in kitchen gardens, and which, whether eaten
cooked or raw, are, like potatoes, carrots, parsnips,
turnips, beets, cauliflower, cabbage, celery and lettuce,
usually served at dinner in, with or after the soup, fish
or meats which constitute the principal part of the
repast, and not, like fruits generally, as dessert.
The attempt to class tomatoes with fruit is not unlike a
recent attempt to class beans as seeds, of which Mr.
Justice Bradley, speaking for this court, said: "We do not
see why they should be classified as seeds, any more than
walnuts should be so classified. Both are seeds in the
language of botany or natural history, but not in
commerce nor in common parlance. On the other hand,
in speaking generally of provisions, beans may well be
included under the term `vegetables.' As an article of
food on our tables, whether baked or boiled, or forming
the basis of soup, they are used as a vegetable, as well
when ripe as when green. This is the principal use to
which they are put. Beyond the common knowledge
which we have on this subject, very little evidence is
necessary, or can be produced." Robertson v. Salomon,
130 U.S. 412, 414.
Judgment affirmed.