Section 924(c)(1) mandates a sentence enhancement for
any defendant who "during and in relation to any crime
of violence or drug trafficking crime . . . uses . . . a
firearm." 18 U. S. C. § 924(c)(1). The Court begins its
analysis by focusing upon the word "use" in this passage,
and explaining that the dictionary definitions of that
word are very broad. See ante, at 228-229. It is,
however, a "fundamental principle of statutory
construction (and, indeed, of language itself) that the
meaning of a word cannot be determined in isolation,
but must be drawn from the context in which it is used."
Deal v. United States, ante, at 132. That is particularly
true of a word as elastic as "use," whose meanings range
all the way [508 U.S. 242] from "to partake of" (as in "he
uses tobacco") to "to be wont or accustomed" (as in "he
used to smoke tobacco"). See Webster's New
International Dictionary 2806 (2d ed. 1950).
In the search for statutory meaning, we give
nontechnical words and phrases their ordinary meaning.
See Chapman v. United States, 500 U.S. 453, 462 (1991);
Perrin v. United States, 444 U.S. 37, 42 (1979); Minor v.
Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, 1 Pet. 46, 64 (1828). To
use an instrumentality ordinarily means to use it for its
intended purpose. When someone asks, "Do you use a
cane?," he is not inquiring whether you have your
grandfather's silver-handled walking stick on display in
the hall; he wants to know whether you walk with a
cane. Similarly, to speak of "using a firearm" is to speak
of using it for its distinctive purpose, i. e., as a weapon.
To be sure, "one can use a firearm in a number of ways,"
ante, at 230, including as an article of exchange, just as
one can "use" a cane as a hall decoration—but that is not
the ordinary meaning of "using" the one or the other.1
The Court does not appear to grasp the distinction
between how a word can be used and how it ordinarily
is used. It would, indeed, be "both reasonable and
normal to say that petitioner `used' his MAC-10 in his
drug trafficking offense by trading it for cocaine." Ibid. It
would also be reasonable and normal to say that he
"used" it to scratch his head. When one wishes to
describe the action of employing the instrument of a
firearm for such unusual purposes, "use" is assuredly a
[508 U.S. 243] verb one could select. But that says
nothing about whether the ordinary meaning of the
phrase "uses a firearm" embraces such extraordinary
employments. It is unquestionably not reasonable and
normal, I think, to say simply "do not use firearms"
when one means to prohibit selling or scratching with
them.
The normal usage is reflected, for example, in the
United States Sentencing Guidelines, which provide for
enhanced sentences when firearms are "discharged,"
"brandished, displayed, or possessed," or "otherwise
used." See, e. g., United States Sentencing Commission,
Guidelines Manual § 2B3.1(b)(2) (Nov. 1992). As to the
latter term, the Guidelines say: "`Otherwise used' with
reference to a dangerous weapon (including a firearm)
means that the conduct did not amount to the discharge
of a firearm but was more than brandishing, displaying,
or possessing a firearm or other dangerous weapon."
USSG § 1B1.1, comment., n. 1(g) (definitions).
"Otherwise used" in this provision obviously means
"otherwise used as a weapon."2
[508 U.S. 244] Given our rule that ordinary meaning
governs, and given the ordinary meaning of "uses a
firearm," it seems to me inconsequential that "the words
`as a weapon' appear nowhere in the statute," ante, at
229; they are reasonably implicit. Petitioner is not, I
think, seeking to introduce an "additional requirement"
into the text, ibid., but is simply construing the text
according to its normal import.
The Court seeks to avoid this conclusion by referring to
the next subsection of the statute, § 924(d), which does
not employ the phrase "uses a firearm," but provides for
the confiscation of firearms that are "used in" referenced
offenses which include the crimes of transferring,
selling, or transporting firearms in interstate commerce.
The Court concludes from this that whenever the term
appears in this statute, "use" of a firearm must include
nonweapon use. See ante, at 233-236. I do not agree.
We are dealing here not with a technical word or an
"artfully defined" legal term, [508 U.S. 245] cf. Dewsnup
v. Timm, 502 U.S. 410, 423 (1992) (Scalia, J.,
dissenting), but with common words that are, as I have
suggested, inordinately sensitive to context. Just as
adding the direct object "a firearm" to the verb "use"
narrows the meaning of that verb (it can no longer
mean "partake of"), so also adding the modifier "in the
offense of transferring, selling, or transporting firearms"
to the phrase "use a firearm" expands the meaning of
that phrase (it then includes, as it previously would not,
nonweapon use). But neither the narrowing nor the
expansion should logically be thought to apply to all
appearances of the affected word or phrase. Just as every
appearance of the word "use" in the statute need not be
given the narrow meaning that word acquires in the
phrase "use a firearm," so also every appearance of the
phrase "use a firearm" need not be given the expansive
connotation that phrase acquires in the broader context
"use a firearm in crimes such as unlawful sale of
firearms." When, for example, the statute provides that
its prohibition on certain transactions in firearms "shall
not apply to the loan or rental of a firearm to any person
for temporary use for lawful sporting purposes," 18 U. S.
C. §§ 922(a)(5)(B), (b)(3)(B), I have no doubt that the
"use" referred to is only use as a sporting weapon, and
not the use of pawning the firearm to pay for a ski trip.
Likewise when, in § 924(c)(1), the phrase "uses . . . a
firearm" is not employed in a context that necessarily
envisions the unusual "use" of a firearm as a commodity,
the normally understood meaning of the phrase should
prevail.
Another consideration leads to the same conclusion: §
924(c)(1) provides increased penalties not only for one
who "uses" a firearm during and in relation to any crime
of violence or drug trafficking crime, but also for one
who "carries" a firearm in those circumstances. The
interpretation I would give the language produces an
eminently reasonable dichotomy between "using a
firearm" (as a weapon) and "carrying a firearm" (which
in the context "uses or carries a firearm" [508 U.S. 246]
means carrying it in such manner as to be ready for use
as a weapon). The Court's interpretation, by contrast,
produces a strange dichotomy between "using a firearm
for any purpose whatever, including barter," and
"carrying a firearm."3
Finally, although the present prosecution was brought
under the portion of § 924(c)(1) pertaining to use of a
firearm "during and in relation to any . . . drug
trafficking crime," I think it significant that that portion
is affiliated with the preexisting provision pertaining to
use of a firearm "during and in relation to any crime of
violence," rather than with the firearm trafficking
offenses defined in § 922 and referenced in § 924(d).
The word "use" in the "crime of violence" context has
the unmistakable import of use as a weapon, and that
import carries over, in my view, to the subsequently
added phrase "or drug trafficking crime." Surely the
word "use" means the same thing as to both, and surely
the 1986 addition of "drug trafficking crime" would have
been a peculiar way to expand its meaning (beyond "use
as a weapon") for crimes of violence.
Even if the reader does not consider the issue to be as
clear as I do, he must at least acknowledge, I think, that
it is eminently debatable—and that is enough, under the
rule of lenity, to require finding for the petitioner here.
"At the very least, it may be said that the issue is subject
to some doubt. Under these circumstances, we adhere to
the familiar rule that, `where there is ambiguity in a
criminal statute, doubts are resolved in favor of the
defendant.' " Adamo Wrecking Co. v. United States, 434
U.S. 275, 284-285 (1978),[508 U.S. 247] quoting United
States v. Bass, 404 U.S. 336, 348 (1971).4
For the foregoing reasons, I respectfully dissent.