The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA or Act), 87
Stat. 884, 16 U. S. C. § 1531 (1988 ed. and Supp. V),
contains a variety of protections designed to save from
extinction species that the Secretary of the Interior
designates as endangered or threatened. Section 9of the
Act makes it unlawful for any person to "take" any
endangered or threatened species. The Secretary has
promulgated a regulation that defines the statute's
prohibition on takings to include "significant habitat
modification or degradation where it actually kills or
injures wildlife." This case presents the question
whether the Secretary exceeded his authority under the
Act by promulgating that regulation.
I
Section 9(a)(1) of the Act provides the following
protection for endangered species:1
"Except as provided in sections 1535(g)(2) and 1539 of
this title, with respect to any endangered species of fish
or wildlife listed pursuant to section 1533 of this title it
is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States to—. . . . .
[515 U.S. 691] "(B) take any such species within the
United States or the territorial sea of the United States."
16 U. S. C. § 1538(a)(1).
Section 3(19)of the Act defines the statutory term "take":
"The term `take' means to harass, harm, pursue, hunt,
shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect, or to
attempt to engage in any such conduct." 16 U. S. C. §
1532(19).
The Act does not further define the terms it uses to
define "take." The Interior Department regulations that
implement the statute, however, define the statutory
term "harm":
"Harm in the definition of `take' in the Act means an act
which actually kills or injures wildlife. Such act may
include significant habitat modification or degradation
where it actually kills or injures wildlife by significantly
impairing essential behavioral patterns, including
breeding, feeding, or sheltering." 50 CFR § 17.3 (1994).
This regulation has been in place since 1975.2
A limitation on the § 9 "take" prohibition appears in §
10(a)(1)(B) of the Act, which Congress added by
amendment in 1982. That section authorizes the
Secretary to grant a permit for any taking otherwise
prohibited by § 9(a)(1)(B) "if such taking is incidental to,
and not the purpose of,the carrying out of an otherwise
lawful activity." 16 U. S. C. § 1539(a)(1)(B).
In addition to the prohibition on takings, the Act
provides several other protections for endangered
species. Section 4, 16 U. S. C. § 1533, commands the
Secretary to identify species of fish or wildlife that are in
danger of extinction and to publish from time to time
lists of all species he determines to [515 U.S. 692] be
endangered or threatened. Section 5, 16 U. S. C. § 1534,
authorizes the Secretary, in cooperation with the States,
see § 1535, to acquire land to aid in preserving such
species. Section 7 requires federal agencies to ensure
that none of their activities,including the granting of
licenses and permits, will jeopardize the continued
existence of endangered species "or result in the
destruction or adverse modification of habitat of such
species which is determined by the Secretary . . . to be
critical."16 U. S. C. § 1536(a)(2).
Respondents in this action are small landowners,
logging companies, and families dependent on the forest
products industries in the Pacific Northwest and in the
Southeast, and organizations that represent their
interests. They brought this declaratory judgment action
against petitioners, the Secretary of the Interior and the
Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, in the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia to
challenge the statutory validity of the Secretary's
regulation defining "harm," particularly the inclusion of
habitat modification and degradation in the definition.3
Respondents challenged the regulation on its face. Their
complaint alleged that application of the "harm"
regulation to the red-cockaded woodpecker, an
endangered species,4 and the northern spotted owl, a
threatened species,5 had injured them economically.
App. 17-23.
[515 U.S. 693] Respondents advanced three arguments to
support their submission that Congress did not intend
the word "take" in § 9 to include habitat modification, as
the Secretary's "harm" regulation provides. First, they
correctly noted that language in the Senate's original
version of the ESA would have defined "take" to include
"destruction, modification, or curtailment of [the]
habitat or range" of fish or wildlife,6 but the Senate
deleted that language from the bill before enacting it.
Second, respondents argued that Congress intended the
Act's express authorization for the Federal Government
to buy private land in order to prevent habitat
degradation in § 5 to be the exclusive check against
habitat modification on private property. Third, because
the Senate added the term "harm" to the definition of
"take" in a floor amendment without debate,
respondents argued that the court should not interpret
the term so expansively as to include habitat
modification.
The District Court considered and rejected each of
respondents' arguments, finding "that Congress
intended an expansive interpretation of the word `take,'
an interpretation that encompasses habitat
modification." 806 F.Supp. 279, 285 (1992). The court
noted that in 1982, when Congress was aware of a
judicial decision that had applied the Secretary's
regulation, see Palila v. Hawaii Dept. of Land and
Natural Resources, 639 F.2d 495 (CA9 1981) (Palila I), it
amended the Act without using the opportunity to
change the definition of "take." 806 F. Supp., at 284. The
court stated that, even had it found the ESA "`silent or
ambiguous' " as to the authority for the Secretary's
definition of "harm," it would nevertheless have upheld
the regulation as a reasonable interpretation of the
statute. Id., at 285 (quoting [515 U.S. 694] Chevron U. S.
A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467
U.S. 837, 843 (1984)). The District Court therefore
entered summary judgment for petitioners and
dismissed respondents' complaint.
A divided panel of the Court of Appeals initially
affirmed the judgment of the District Court. 1 F.3d 1
(CADC 1993). After granting a petition for rehearing,
however, the panel reversed. 17 F.3d 1463 (CADC
1994). Although acknowledging that "[t]he potential
breadth of the word `harm' is indisputable," id., at 1464,
the majority concluded that the immediate statutory
context in which "harm" appeared counseled against a
broad reading; like the other words in the definition of
"take," the word "harm" should be read as applying only
to "the perpetrator's direct application of force against
the animal taken . . . . The forbidden acts fit, in ordinary
language, the basic model `A hit B.' " Id., at 1465. The
majority based its reasoning on a canon of statutory
construction called noscitur a sociis, which holds that a
word is known by the company it keeps. See Neal v.
Clark, 95 U.S. 704, 708-709 (1878).
The majority claimed support for its construction from
a decision of the Ninth Circuit that narrowly construed
the word "harass" in the Marine Mammal Protection
Act of 1972, 16 U. S. C. § 1372(a)(2)(A), see United
States v. Hayashi, 5 F.3d 1278, 1282 (1993); from the
legislative history of the ESA;7 from its view that
Congress must not have intended the purportedly broad
curtailment of private property rights that the
Secretary's interpretation permitted; and from the ESA's
land acquisition provision in § 5 and restriction on
federal agencies' activities regarding habitat in § 7, both
of which the court saw as evidence that Congress had
not intended the § 9 "take" prohibition to reach habitat
modification. [515 U.S. 695] Most prominently, the court
performed a lengthy analysis of the 1982 amendment to
§ 10 that provided for "incidental take permits" and
concluded that the amendment did not change the
meaning of the term "take" as defined in the 1973
statute.8
Chief Judge Mikva, who had announced the panel's
original decision, dissented. See 17 F. 3d, at 1473. In his
view, a proper application of Chevron indicated that the
Secretary had reasonably defined "harm," because
respondents had failed to show that Congress
unambiguously manifested its intent to exclude habitat
modification from the ambit of "take." Chief Judge
Mikva found the majority's reliance on noscitur a sociis
inappropriate in light of the statutory language and
unnecessary in light of the strong support in the
legislative history for the Secretary's interpretation. He
did not find the 1982 "incidental take permit"
amendment alone sufficient to vindicate the Secretary's
definition of "harm," but he believed the amendment
provided additional support for that definition because
it reflected Congress' view in 1982 that the definition
was reasonable.
The Court of Appeals' decision created a square conflict
with a 1988 decision of the Ninth Circuit that had
upheld the Secretary's definition of "harm." See Palila v.
Hawaii Dept. of Land and Natural Resources, 852 F.2d
1106 (1988) (Palila II). The Court of Appeals neither
cited nor distinguished Palila II, despite the stark
contrast between the Ninth Circuit's holding and its
own. We granted certiorari to resolve the conflict. 513
U.S. 1072 (1995). Our consideration of the text and
structure of the Act, its legislative history, and the
significance of the 1982 amendment persuades us that
the Court of Appeals' judgment should be reversed.
[515 U.S. 696] II
Because this case was decided on motions for summary
judgment, we may appropriately make certain factual
assumptions in order to frame the legal issue. First, we
assume respondents have no desire to harm either the
redcockaded woodpecker or the spotted owl; they
merely wish to continue logging activities that would be
entirely proper if not prohibited by the ESA. On the
other hand, we must assume, arguendo, that those
activities will have the effect, even though unintended,
of detrimentally changing the natural habitat of both
listed species and that, as a consequence, members of
those species will be killed or injured. Under
respondents' view of the law, the Secretary's only means
of forestalling that grave result—even when the actor
knows it is certain to occur9 —is to use his § 5 authority
to purchase [515 U.S. 697] the lands on which the
survival of the species depends. The Secretary, on the
other hand, submits that the § 9 prohibition on takings,
which Congress defined to include "harm," places on
respondents a duty to avoid harm that habitat alteration
will cause the birds unless respondents first obtain a
permit pursuant to § 10.
The text of the Act provides three reasons for
concluding that the Secretary's interpretation is
reasonable. First, an ordinary understanding of the
word "harm" supports it. The dictionary definition of
the verb form of "harm" is "to cause hurt or damage to:
injure." Webster's Third New International Dictionary
1034 (1966). In the context of the ESA, that definition
naturally encompasses habitat modification that results
in actual injury or death to members of an endangered
or threatened species.
Respondents argue that the Secretary should have
limited the purview of "harm" to direct applications of
force against protected species, but the dictionary
definition does not include the word "directly" or
suggest in any way that only direct or willful action that
leads to injury constitutes "harm."10 Moreover, unless
the statutory term "harm" encompasses [515 U.S. 698]
indirect as well as direct injuries, the word has no
meaning that does not duplicate the meaning of other
words that § 3 uses to define "take." A reluctance to treat
statutory terms as surplusage supports the
reasonableness of the Secretary's interpretation. See, e.
g., Mackey v. Lanier Collection Agency & Service, Inc.,
486 U.S. 825, 837, and n. 11 (1988).11
Second, the broad purpose of the ESA supports the
Secretary's decision to extend protection against
activities that cause the precise harms Congress enacted
the statute to avoid. In TVA v. Hill, 437 U.S. 153 (1978),
we described the Act as "the most comprehensive
legislation for the preservation of endangered species
ever enacted by any nation." Id., at 180. Whereas
predecessor statutes enacted in 1966 and 1969 had not
contained any sweeping prohibition against the taking
of endangered species except on federal lands, see id., at
175, the 1973 Act applied to all land in the United States
and to the Nation's territorial seas. As stated in § 2 of
the Act, among its central purposes is "to provide a
means whereby the ecosystems upon which endangered
species and threatened species depend may be conserved
. . . ." 16 U. S. C. § 1531(b).
[515 U.S. 699] In Hill, we construed § 7 as precluding the
completion of the Tellico Dam because of its predicted
impact on the survival of the snail darter. See 437 U. S.,
at 193. Both our holding and the language in our
opinion stressed the importance of the statutory policy.
"The plain intent of Congress in enacting this statute,"
we recognized, "was to halt and reverse the trend
toward species extinction, whatever the cost. This is
reflected not only in the stated policies of the Act, but in
literally every section of the statute." Id., at 184.
Although the § 9 "take" prohibition was not at issue in
Hill, we took note of that prohibition, placing particular
emphasis on the Secretary's inclusion of habitat
modification in his definition of "harm."12 In light of
that provision for habitat protection, we could "not
understand how TVA intends to operate Tellico Dam
without `harming' the snail darter." Id., at 184, n. 30.
Congress' intent to provide comprehensive protection
for endangered and threatened species supports the
permissibility of the Secretary's "harm" regulation.
Respondents advance strong arguments that activities
that cause minimal or unforeseeable harm will not
violate the Act as construed in the "harm" regulation.
Respondents, however, present a facial challenge to the
regulation. Cf. Anderson v. Edwards, 514 U.S. 143, 155-
156, n. 6 (1995); INS v. National Center for Immigrants'
Rights, Inc., 502 U.S. 183, 188 (1991). Thus, they ask us
to invalidate the Secretary's understanding of "harm" in
every circumstance, even when an actor knows that an
activity, such as draining a [515 U.S. 700] pond, would
actually result in the extinction of a listed species by
destroying its habitat. Given Congress' clear expression
of the ESA's broad purpose to protect endangered and
threatened wildlife, the Secretary's definition of "harm"
is reasonable.13
Third, the fact that Congress in 1982 authorized the
Secretary to issue permits for takings that § 9(a)(1)(B)
would otherwise prohibit, "if such taking is incidental
to, and not the purpose of, the carrying out of an
otherwise lawful activity," 16 U. S. C. § 1539(a)(1)(B),
strongly suggests that Congress understood § 9(a)(1)(B)
to prohibit indirect as well as deliberate takings. Cf.
NLRB v. Bell Aerospace Co., 416 U.S. 267, 274-275
(1974). The permit process requires the applicant to
prepare a "conservation plan" that specifies how he
intends to "minimize and mitigate" the "impact" of his
activity on endangered and threatened species, 16 U. S.
C. § 1539(a)(2)(A), making clear that Congress had in
mind foreseeable rather than merely accidental effects
on listed species.14 No one could seriously request an
"incidental" take [515 U.S. 701] permit to avert § 9
liability for direct, deliberate action against a member of
an endangered or threatened species, but respondents
would read "harm" so narrowly that the permit
procedure would have little more than that absurd
purpose. "When Congress acts to amend a statute, we
presume it intends its amendment to have real and
substantial effect." Stone v. INS, 514 U.S. 386, 397
(1995). Congress' addition of the § 10 permit provision
supports the Secretary's conclusion that activities not
intended to harm an endangered species, such as habitat
modification, may constitute unlawful takings under the
ESA unless the Secretary permits them.
The Court of Appeals made three errors in asserting
that "harm" must refer to a direct application of force
because the words around it do.15 First, the court's
premise was flawed. Several of the words that
accompany "harm" in the § 3 definition of "take,"
especially "harass," "pursue," "wound," and "kill," refer to
actions or effects that do not require direct applications
of force. Second, to the extent the court read a
requirement of intent or purpose into the words used to
define "take," it ignored § 11's express provision that a
"knowin[g]" [515 U.S. 702] action is enough to violate
the Act. Third, the court employed noscitur a sociis to
give "harm" essentially the same function as other words
in the definition, thereby denying it independent
meaning. The canon, to the contrary, counsels that a
word "gathers meaning from the words around it."
Jarecki v. G. D. Searle & Co., 367 U.S. 303, 307 (1961).
The statutory context of "harm" suggests that Congress
meant that term to serve a particular function in the
ESA, consistent with, but distinct from, the functions of
the other verbs used to define "take." The Secretary's
interpretation of "harm" to include indirectly injuring
endangered animals through habitat modification
permissibly interprets "harm" to have "a character of its
own not to be submerged by its association." Russell
Motor Car Co. v. United States, 261 U.S. 514, 519
(1923).16
Nor does the Act's inclusion of the § 5 land acquisition
authority and the § 7 directive to federal agencies to
avoid destruction or adverse modification of critical
habitat alter our conclusion. Respondents' argument
that the Government lacks any incentive to purchase
land under § 5 when it can simply prohibit takings
under § 9 ignores the practical considerations that
attend enforcement of the ESA. Purchasing habitat lands
may well cost the Government less in many
circumstances than pursuing civil or criminal penalties.
In addition, the § 5 procedure allows for protection of
habitat before the seller's activity has harmed any
endangered animal, [515 U.S. 703] whereas the
Government cannot enforce the § 9 prohibition until an
animal has actually been killed or injured. The Secretary
may also find the § 5 authority useful for preventing
modification of land that is not yet but may in the future
become habitat for an endangered or threatened species.
The § 7 directive applies only to the Federal
Government, whereas the § 9 prohibition applies to
"any person." Section 7 imposes a broad, affirmative
duty to avoid adverse habitat modifications that § 9 does
not replicate, and § 7 does not limit its admonition to
habitat modification that "actually kills or injures
wildlife." Conversely, § 7 contains limitations that § 9
does not, applying only to actions "likely to jeopardize
the continued existence of any endangered species or
threatened species," 16 U. S. C. § 1536(a)(2), and to
modifications of habitat that has been designated
"critical" pursuant to § 4, 16 U. S. C. § 1533(b)(2).17 Any
overlap that § 5 or § 7 may have with § 9 in particular
cases is unexceptional, see, e. g., Russello v. United
States, 464 U.S. 16, 24, and n. 2 (1983), and simply
reflects the broad purpose of the Act set out in § 2 and
acknowledged in TVA v. Hill.
We need not decide whether the statutory definition of
"take" compels the Secretary's interpretation of "harm,"
because our conclusions that Congress did not
unambiguously manifest its intent to adopt respondents'
view and that the Secretary's interpretation is reasonable
suffice to decide this case. See generally Chevron U. S.
A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467
U.S. 837 (1984). The latitude the ESA gives the
Secretary in enforcing the statute, together with the
degree of regulatory expertise necessary to its
enforcement, establishes that we owe some degree of
deference to the Secretary's reasonable interpretation.
See [515 U.S. 704] Breyer, Judicial Review of Questions
of Law and Policy, 38 Admin. L. Rev. 363, 373 (1986).18
III
Our conclusion that the Secretary's definition of "harm"
rests on a permissible construction of the ESA gains
further support from the legislative history of the
statute. The Committee Reports accompanying the bills
that became the ESA do not specifically discuss the
meaning of "harm," but they make clear that Congress
intended "take" to apply broadly to cover indirect as well
as purposeful actions. The Senate Report stressed that
"`[t]ake' is defined . . . in the broadest possible manner
to include every conceivable way in which a person can
`take' or attempt to `take' any fish or wildlife." S. Rep.
No. 93-307, p. 7 (1973). The House Report stated that
"the broadest possible terms" were used to define
restrictions on takings. H. R. Rep. No. 93-412, p. 15
(1973). The House Report underscored the breadth of
the [515 U.S. 705] "take" definition by noting that it
included "harassment, whether intentional or not. " Id.,
at 11 (emphasis added). The Report explained that the
definition "would allow, for example, the Secretary to
regulate or prohibit the activities of birdwatchers where
the effect of those activities might disturb the birds and
make it difficult for them to hatch or raise their young."
Ibid. These comments, ignored in the dissent's welcome
but selective foray into legislative history, see post, at
726-729, support the Secretary's interpretation that the
term "take" in § 9 reached far more than the deliberate
actions of hunters and trappers.
Two endangered species bills, S. 1592 and S. 1983, were
introduced in the Senate and referred to the Commerce
Committee. Neither bill included the word "harm" in its
definition of "take," although the definitions otherwise
closely resembled the one that appeared in the bill as
ultimately enacted. See Hearings on S. 1592 and S. 1983
before the Subcommittee on Environment of the Senate
Committee on Commerce, 93d Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 7,
27 (1973) (hereinafter Hearings). Senator Tunney, the
floor manager of the bill in the Senate, subsequently
introduced a floor amendment that added "harm" to the
definition, noting that this and accompanying
amendments would "help to achieve the purposes of the
bill." 119 Cong. Rec. 25683 (1973). Respondents argue
that the lack of debate about the amendment that added
"harm" counsels in favor of a narrow interpretation. We
disagree. An obviously broad word that the Senate went
out of its way to add to an important statutory
definition is precisely the sort of provision that deserves
a respectful reading.
The definition of "take" that originally appeared in S.
1983 differed from the definition as ultimately enacted
in one other significant respect: It included "the
destruction, modification, or curtailment of [the] habitat
or range" of fish and wildlife. Hearings, at 27.
Respondents make much of the fact that the Commerce
Committee removed this phrase [515 U.S. 706] from the
"take" definition before S. 1983 went to the floor. See
119 Cong. Rec. 25663 (1973). We do not find that fact
especially significant. The legislative materials contain
no indication why the habitat protection provision was
deleted. That provision differed greatly from the
regulation at issue today. Most notably, the habitat
protection provision in S. 1983 would have applied far
more broadly than the regulation does because it made
adverse habitat modification a categorical violation of
the "take" prohibition, unbounded by the regulation's
limitation to habitat modifications that actually kill or
injure wildlife. The S. 1983 language also failed to
qualify "modification" with the regulation's limiting
adjective "significant." We do not believe the Senate's
unelaborated disavowal of the provision in S. 1983
undermines the reasonableness of the more moderate
habitat protection in the Secretary's "harm" regulation.19
[515 U.S. 707] The history of the 1982 amendment that
gave the Secretary authority to grant permits for
"incidental" takings provides further support for his
reading of the Act. The House Report expressly states
that "[b]y use of the word `incidental' the Committee
intends to cover situations in which it is known that a
taking will occur if the other activity is engaged in but
such taking is incidental to, and not the purpose of, the
activity." H. R. Rep. No. 97-567, p. 31 (1982). This
reference to the foreseeability of incidental takings
undermines respondents' argument that the 1982
amendment covered only accidental killings of
endangered and threatened animals that might occur in
the course of hunting or trapping other animals. Indeed,
Congress had habitat modification directly in mind:
Both the Senate Report and the House Conference
Report identified as the model for the permit process a
cooperative state-federal response to a case in California
where a development project threatened incidental
harm to a species of endangered butterfly by
modification of its habitat. See S. Rep. No. 97-418, p. 10
(1982); H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 97-835, pp. 30-32 (1982).
Thus, Congress in 1982 focused squarely on the aspect
of the "harm" regulation at issue in this litigation.
Congress' implementation of a permit program [515 U.S.
708] is consistent with the Secretary's interpretation of
the term "harm."
IV
When it enacted the ESA, Congress delegated broad
administrative and interpretive power to the Secretary.
See 16 U. S. C. §§ 1533, 1540(f). The task of defining
and listing endangered and threatened species requires
an expertise and attention to detail that exceeds the
normal province of Congress. Fashioning appropriate
standards for issuing permits under § 10 for takings that
would otherwise violate § 9 necessarily requires the
exercise of broad discretion. The proper interpretation
of a term such as "harm" involves a complex policy
choice. When Congress has entrusted the Secretary with
broad discretion, we are especially reluctant to substitute
our views of wise policy for his. See Chevron, 467 U. S.,
at 865-866. In this case, that reluctance accords with our
conclusion, based on the text, structure, and legislative
history of the ESA, that the Secretary reasonably
construed the intent of Congress when he defined
"harm" to include "significant habitat modification or
degradation that actually kills or injures wildlife."
In the elaboration and enforcement of the ESA, the
Secretary and all persons who must comply with the law
will confront difficult questions of proximity and
degree; for, as all recognize, the Act encompasses a vast
range of economic and social enterprises and endeavors.
These questions must be addressed in the usual course
of the law, through case-bycase resolution and
adjudication.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.