The ubiquity of the Internet is undisputed. With more
than 1.3 billion Internet users and over 158 million
websites in existence,1 a vast number of them
interactive like Google, Yahoo!, Craigslist, MySpace,
YouTube, and Facebook, the question of webhost
liability is a significant one. On a daily basis, we rely on
the tools of cyberspace to help us make, maintain, and
rekindle friendships; find places to live, work, eat, and
travel; exchange views on topics ranging from terrorism
to patriotism; and enlighten ourselves on subjects from
"aardvarks to Zoroastrianism."2
The majority's unprecedented expansion of liability for
Internet service providers threatens to chill the robust
development of the Internet that Congress envisioned.
The majority condemns Roommate's "search system," a
function that is the heart of interactive service
providers. My concern is not an empty Chicken Little
"sky is falling" alert. By exposing every interactive
service provider to liability for sorting, searching, and
utilizing the all too familiar drop-down menus, the
majority has dramatically altered the landscape of
Internet liability. Instead of the "robust"3 immunity
envisioned by Congress, interactive service providers
are left scratching their heads and wondering where
immunity ends and liability begins.
To promote the unfettered development of the Internet,
Congress adopted the Communications Decency Act of
1996 ("CDA"), which provides that interactive computer
service providers will not be held legally responsible for
publishing information provided by third parties. 47
U.S.C. § 230(c)(1). Even though traditional publishers
retain liability for performing essentially equivalent acts
in the "non-virtual world," Congress chose to treat
interactive service providers differently by immunizing
them from liability stemming from sorting, searching,
and publishing third-party information. As we
explained in Batzel v. Smith:
[Section] 230(c)(1)[] overrides the traditional treatment of
publishers, distributors, and speakers under statutory and common
law. As a matter of policy, "Congress decided not to treat providers
of interactive computer services like other information providers
such as newspapers, magazines or television and radio stations. . . ."
Congress . . . has chosen to treat cyberspace differently.
333 F.3d 1018, 1026-1027 (9th Cir.2003) (quoting
Blumenthal v. Drudge, 992 F.Supp. 44, 49 (D.D.C.1998)
(footnote omitted)).
Now, with the stroke of a pen or, more accurately, a few
strokes of the keyboard, the majority upends the settled
view that interactive service providers enjoy broad
immunity when publishing information provided by
third parties. Instead, interactive [521 F.3d 1177] service
providers are now joined at the hip with third-party
users, and they rise and fall together in liability for
Internet sortings and postings.
To be sure, the statute, which was adopted just as the
Internet was beginning a surge of popular currency,4 is
not a perfect match against today's technology. The
Web 2.0 version is a far cry from web technology in the
mid-1990s. Nonetheless, the basic message from
Congress has retained its traction, and there should be a
high bar to liability for organizing and searching third-
party information. The bipartisan view in Congress was
that the Internet, as a new form of communication,
should not be impeded by the transference of
regulations and principles developed from traditional
modes of communication. The majority repeatedly
harps that if something is prohibited in the physical
world, Congress could not have intended it to be legal in
cyberspace. Yet that is precisely the path Congress took
with the CDA: the anomaly that a webhost may be
immunized for conducting activities in cyberspace that
would traditionally be cause for liability is exactly what
Congress intended by enacting the CDA.
In the end, the majority offers interactive computer
service providers no bright lines and little comfort in
finding a home within § 230(c)(1). The result in this
case is driven by the distaste for housing discrimination,
a laudable endgame were housing the real focus of this
appeal. But it is not. I share the majority's view that
housing discrimination is a troubling issue.
Nevertheless, we should be looking at the housing issue
through the lens of the Internet, not from the
perspective of traditional publisher liability. Whether §
230(c)(1) trumps the Fair Housing Act ("FHA") is a
policy decision for Congress, not us. Congress has
spoken: third-party content on the Internet should not
be burdened with the traditional legal framework.
I respectfully part company with the majority as to Part
2
5 of the opinion because the majority has misconstrued
the statutory protection under the CDA for Roommate's
publishing and sorting of user profiles. The plain
language and structure of the CDA unambiguously
demonstrate that Congress intended these activities —
the collection, organizing, analyzing, searching, and
transmitting of third-party content — to be beyond the
scope of traditional publisher liability. The majority's
decision, which sets us apart from five circuits,
contravenes congressional intent and violates the spirit
and serendipity of the Internet.
Specifically, the majority's analysis is flawed for three
reasons: (1) the opinion conflates the questions of
liability under the FHA and immunity under the CDA;
(2) the majority rewrites the statute with its definition
of "information content provider," labels the search
function "information development," and strips
interactive service providers of immunity; and (3) the
majority's approach undermines the purpose [521 F.3d
1178] of § 230(c)(1) and has far-reaching practical
consequences in the Internet world.
To begin, it is important to recognize what this appeal is
not about. At this stage, there has been no
determination of liability under the FHA, nor has there
been any determination that the questions, answers or
even the existence of Roommate's website violate the
FHA. The FHA is a complicated statute and there may
well be room for potential roommates to select who
they want to live with, e.g., a tidy accountant wanting a
tidy professional roommate, a collegiate male requesting
a male roommate, an observant Jew needing a house
with a kosher kitchen, or a devout, single, religious
female preferring not to have a male housemate. It also
bears noting that even if Roommate is immune under
the CDA, the issue of user liability for allegedly
discriminatory preferences is a separate question. See
Zeran v. Am. Online, Inc., 129 F.3d 327, 330 (4th Cir.
1997) (stating that "the"original culpable party" does not
"escape accountability").
By offering up inflammatory examples, the majority's
opinion screams "discrimination." The hazard is, of
course, that the question of discrimination has not yet
been litigated. In dissenting, I do not condone housing
discrimination or endorse unlawful discriminatory
roommate selection practices; I simply underscore that
the merits of the FHA claim are not before us. However,
one would not divine this posture from the majority's
opinion, which is infused with condemnation of
Roommate's users' practices. To mix and match, as does
the majority, the alleged unlawfulness of the
information with the question of webhost immunity is
to rewrite the statute.
Examples from the opinion highlight that the majority's
conclusion rests on the premise that Roommate's
questions and matching function violate the FHA:
• "Unlawful questions solicit (a.k.a. `develop') unlawful answers."
Maj. Op. at 1166.
• "If such questions are unlawful when posed face-to-face or by
telephone, they don't magically become lawful when asked
electronically online." Id. at 1164.
• "If such screening is prohibited when practiced in person or by
telephone, we see no reason why Congress would have wanted to
make it lawful to profit from it online." Id. at 1167.
• "Roommate's search function thus differs materially from generic
search engines such as Google, Yahoo! and MSN Live Search, in
that Roommate designed its system to use allegedly unlawful
criteria so as to limit the results of each search, and to force users to
participate in its discriminatory process." Id.
• "By contrast, ordinary search engines do not use unlawful criteria
to limit the scope of searches conducted on them, nor are they
designed to achieve illegal ends — as Roommate's search function is
alleged to do here." Id.
• "Roommate's website is designed to force subscribers to divulge
protected characteristics and discriminatory preferences." Id. at
1172.
The entire opinion links Roommate's ostensibly
reprehensible conduct (and that of its users) with an
unprecedented interpretation of the CDA's immunity
provision. The majority condemns Roommate for
soliciting illegal content, but there has been no
determination that Roommate's questions or
standardized answers are illegal. Instead of
foreshadowing a ruling on the FHA, the opinion should
be confined to the issue before us — application of §
230(c)(1) to Roommate. The district court has not yet
ruled on the merits of the FHA claim and neither should
we.
[521 F.3d 1179] The Statute
With this background in mind, I first turn to the text of
the statute. Section 230 begins with a detailed recitation
of findings and policy reasons for the statute. Congress
expressly found that the "Internet and other interactive
computer services offer a forum for a true diversity of
political discourse, unique opportunities for cultural
development, and myriad avenues for intellectual
activity," and that "[i]ncreasingly Americans are relying
on interactive media for a variety of political,
educational, cultural, and entertainment services." 47
U.S.C. § 230(a)(3), (5). Congress declared that "[i]t is the
policy of the United States to . . . promote the continued
development of the Internet and other interactive
computer services and other interactive media." §
230(b)(1).6
Unlike some statutes, subsections (a) and (b) set out in
clear terms the congressional findings and policies
underlying the statute. For this reason, it strikes me as
odd that the majority begins, not with the statute and
these express findings, but with legislative history.
Granted, Congress was prompted by several cases,
particularly the Prodigy case, to take action to protect
interactive service providers. See Stratton Oakmont,
Inc. v. Prodigy Servs. Co., 1995 WL 323710, 1995 N.Y.
Misc. LEXIS 229 (N.Y.Sup.Ct. May 24, 1995). But that
case does not cabin the scope of the statute, and the
background leading up to enactment of the CDA is no
substitute for the language of the statute itself. See
Chicago Lawyers' Comm. for Civil Rights Under the
Law, Inc. v. Craigslist, Inc., 519 F.3d 666, ____ (7th Cir.
2008) (concluding that, as enacted, "Section 230(c)(1) is
general[,]" despite its "genesis" in Prodigy).
Section 230(c), the heart of this case, is entitled
"Protection for `good Samaritan' blocking and screening
of offensive material[.]" The substantive language of the
statute itself is not so limited. Section 230(c)(1)
provides:
(1) Treatment of publisher or speaker
No provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be
treated as the publisher or speaker of any information provided by
another information content provider.
§ 230(c)(1). Since it was first addressed in 1997 in Zeran,
this section has been interpreted by the courts as
providing webhost "immunity," although to be more
precise, it provides a safe haven for interactive computer
service providers by removing them from the traditional
liabilities attached to speakers and publishers.7 See
Zeran, 129 F.3d at 330 ("By its plain language, § 230
creates a federal immunity to any cause of action that
would make service providers liable for information
originating with a third-party user of the service.").
We have characterized this immunity under § 230(c)(1)
as "quite robust." Carafano, 339 F.3d at 1123. Five of our
sister circuits have similarly embraced this robust view
of immunity by providing differential treatment to
interactive service providers. Chicago Lawyers' Comm.
for Civil Rights Under the Law, Inc. v. Craigslist, Inc.,
519 F.3d 666, ___ _ ___ (7th Cir. 2008); Universal
Commc'n Sys. v. Lycos, Inc., 478 F.3d 413, 415 (1st
Cir.2007);[521 F.3d 1180] Green v. Am. Online, 318 F.3d
465, 470 (3d Cir.2003); Ben Ezra, Weinstein, & Co., Inc.
v. Am. Online Inc., 206 F.3d 980, 986 (10th Cir.2000);
Zeran, 129 F.3d at 330; see also Whitney Info. Network,
Inc. v. Xcentric Ventures, LLC, No. 2:04-cv-47-FtM-
34SPC, 2008 WL 450095, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 11632
(M.D.Fla. Feb. 15, 2008); Doe v. MySpace, Inc., 474
F.Supp.2d 843, 849 (W.D.Tex.2007); Corbis Corp. v.
Amazon.com, Inc., 351 F.Supp.2d 1090, 1118
(W.D.Wash.2004); Blumenthal, 992 F.Supp. at 50-53;
Barrett v. Rosenthal, 40 Cal.4th 33, 51 Cal.Rptr.3d 55,
146 P.3d 510, 529 (2006); Gentry v. eBay, Inc., 99
Cal.App.4th 816, 121 Cal.Rptr.2d 703, 717-18 (2002);
Schneider v. Amazon.com, Inc., 108 Wn.App. 454, 31
P.3d 37, 42-43 (2001).
Key to this immunity provision are the terms
"interactive computer service" provider and
"information content provider." The CDA defines an
"interactive computer service" as any "information
service, system, or access software provider that
provides or enables computer access by multiple users to
a computer server." § 230(f)(2). An interactive computer
service provider is not liable as a "publisher" or
"speaker" of information if the "information" is
"provided by another information content provider." §
230(c)(1). The statute then defines an "information
content provider" as a "person or entity that is
responsible, in whole or in part, for the creation or
development of information provided through the
Internet or any other interactive computer service." §
230(f)(3). If the provider of an interactive computer
service is an information content provider of the
information at issue, it cannot claim immunity as a
publisher or speaker. Carafano, 339 F.3d at 1123.
Courts deciding the question of § 230(c)(1) immunity
"do not write on a blank slate." Universal Commc'n, 478
F.3d at 418. Even though rapid developments in
technology have made webhosts increasingly adept at
searching and displaying third-party information,
reviewing' courts have, in the twelve years since the
CDA's enactment, "adopt[ed] a relatively expansive
definition of `interactive computer service' and a
relatively restrictive definition of `information content
provider.'" See Carafano, 339 F.3d at 1123 (footnotes
omitted). As long as information is provided by a third
party, webhosts are immune from liability for
publishing "ads for housing, auctions of paintings that
may have been stolen by Nazis, biting comments about
steroids in baseball, efforts to verify the truth of
politicians' promises, and everything else that third
parties may post on a web site." Craigslist, 519 F.3d at
____. We have underscored that this broad grant of
webhost immunity gives effect to Congress's stated goals
"to promote the continued development of the Internet
and other interactive computer services" and "to
preserve the vibrant and competitive free market that
presently exists for the Internet and other interactive
computer services." Carafano, 339 F.3d at 1123
(discussing § 230(b)(1), (2)).
Application of § 230(c)(1) to Roommate's Website
Because our focus is on the term "information content
provider," and what it means to create or develop
information, it is worth detailing exactly how the
website operates, what information is at issue and who
provides it. The roommate matching process involves
three categories of data: About Me or Household
Description; Roommate Preferences; and Comments.
To become a member of Roommates.com, a user must
complete a personal profile by selecting answers from
drop-down menus or checking off boxes on the screen.
The profile includes "location" information [521 F.3d
1181] (e.g., city and state, region of the city, and data
about the surrounding neighborhood); details about the
residence (e.g., the total number of bedrooms and
bathrooms in the home, and amenities such as air
conditioning, wheelchair access, high-speed Internet, or
parking), and the "rental details" (e.g., monthly rent
charged, lease period, and availability). The last section
of the profile is the "Household Description" section,8
which includes the total number of occupants in the
home, their age range, gender, occupation, level of
cleanliness, whether they are smokers, and whether
children or pets are present.
The remaining sections of the registration process are
completely optional; a user who skips them has created a
profile based on the information already provided. At
his option, the user may select an emoticon to describe
the "household character," and may upload images of the
room or residence. Next, users may, at their option,
specify characteristics desired in a potential roommate,
such as a preferred age range, gender, and level of
cleanliness. If nothing is selected, all options are
included.9 The final step in the registration process,
which is also optional, is the "Comments" section, in
which users are presented with a blank text box in
which they may write whatever they like, to be
published with their member profiles.
Users may choose an optional "custom search" of user
profiles based on criteria that they specify, like the
amount of monthly rent or distance from a preferred
city. Based on the information provided by users during
the registration process, Roommate's automated system
then searches and matches potential roommates.
Roommate's Terms of Service provide in part, "You
understand that we do not provide the information on
the site and that all publicly posted or privately
transmitted information, data, text, photographs,
graphics, messages, or other materials (`Content') are
the sole responsibility of the person from which such
Content originated."
Roommate's users are "information content providers"
because they are responsible for creating the
information in their user profiles and, at their option —
not the website's choice — in expressing preferences as
to roommate characteristics. § 230(f)(3). The critical
question is whether Roommate is itself an "information
content provider," such that it cannot claim that the
information at issue was "provided [521 F.3d 1182] by
another information content provider." A close reading
of the statute leads to the conclusion that Roommate is
not an information content provider for two reasons:
(1) providing a drop-down menu does not constitute
"creating" or "developing" information; and (2) the
structure and text of the statute make plain that
Congress intended to immunize Roommate's sorting,
displaying, and transmitting of third-party information.
Roommate neither "creates" nor "develops" the
information that is challenged by the Councils, i.e., the
information provided by the users as to their protected
characteristics and the preferences expressed as to
roommate characteristics. All Roommate does is to
provide a form with options for standardized answers.
Listing categories such as geographic location,
cleanliness, gender and number of occupants, and
transmitting to users profiles of other users whose
expressed information matches their expressed
preferences, can hardly be said to be creating or
developing information. Even adding standardized
options does not "develop" information. Roommate,
with its prompts, is merely "selecting material for
publication," which we have stated does not constitute
the "development" of information. Batzel, 333 F.3d at
1031. The profile is created solely by the user, not the
provider of the interactive website. Indeed, without user
participation, there is no information at all. The dropdown
menu is simply a precategorization of user
information before the electronic sorting and displaying
that takes place via an algorithm. If a user has identified
herself as a non-smoker and another has expressed a
preference for a non-smoking roommate, Roommate's
sorting and matching of user information are no
different than that performed by a generic search
engine.
Displaying the prompt "Gender" and offering the list of
choices, "Straight male; Gay male; Straight female; Gay
female" does not develop the information, "I am a Gay
male." The user has identified himself as such and
provided that information to Roommate to publish.
Thus, the user is the sole creator of that information; no
"development" has occurred. In the same vein,
presenting the user with a "Preferences" section and
drop-down menus of options does not "develop" a user's
preference for a non-smoking roommate. As we stated
in Carafano, the "actual profile `information' consist[s]
of the particular options chosen" by the user, such that
Roommate is not "responsible, even in part, for
associating certain multiple choice responses with a set
of [] characteristics." 339 F.3d at 1124.
The thrust of the majority's proclamation that
Roommate is "developing" the information that it
publishes, sorts, and transmits is as follows: "[W]e
interpret the term `development' as referring not merely
to augmenting the content generally, but to materially
contributing to its unlawfulness." Maj. Op. at 1168. This
definition is original to say the least and springs forth
untethered to anything in the statute.
The majority's definition of "development" epitomizes
its consistent collapse of substantive liability with the
issue of immunity. Where in the statute does Congress
say anything about unlawfulness? Whether Roommate
is entitled to immunity for publishing and sorting
profiles is wholly distinct from whether Roommate may
be liable for violations of the FHA. Immunity has
meaning only when there is something to be immune
from, whether a disease or the violation of a law. It
would be nonsense to claim to be immune only from the
innocuous. But the majority's immunity analysis is built
on substantive liability: to the majority, CDA immunity
depends on whether a webhost materially [521 F.3d 1183]
contributed to the unlawfulness of the information.
Whether the information at issue is unlawful and
whether the webhost has contributed to its unlawfulness
are issues analytically independent of the determination
of immunity. Grasping at straws to distinguish
Roommate from other interactive websites such as
Google and Yahoo!, the majority repeatedly gestures to
Roommate's potential substantive liability as sufficient
reason to disturb its immunity. But our task is to
determine whether the question of substantive liability
may be reached in the first place.
Keep in mind that "unlawfulness" would include not
only purported statutory violations but also potential
defamatory statements. The irony is that the majority
would have us determine "guilt" or liability in order to
decide whether immunity is available. This upside-down
approach would knock out even the narrowest
immunity offered under § 230(c) — immunity for
defamation as a publisher or speaker.
Another flaw in the majority's approach is that it fails to
account for all of the other information allegedly
developed by the webhost. For purposes of determining
whether Roommate is an information content provider
vis-a-vis the profiles, the inquiry about geography and
the inquiry about gender should stand on the same
footing. Both are single word prompts followed by a
drop-down menu of options. If a prompt about gender
constitutes development, then so too does, the prompt
about geography. And therein lies the rub.
Millions of websites use prompts and drop-down
menus. Inquiries range from what credit card you want
to use and consumer satisfaction surveys asking about
age; sex and household income, to dating sites, e.g.,
match.com, sites lambasting corporate practices, e.g.,
ripoffreports.com, and sites that allow truckers to link
up with available loads, e.g., getloaded.com. Some of
these sites are innocuous while others may not be. Some
may solicit illegal information; others may not. But that
is not the point. The majority's definition of
"development" would transform every interactive site
into an information content provider and the result
would render illusory any immunity under § 230(c).
Virtually every site could be responsible in part for
developing content.
For example, the majority purports to carve out a place
for Google and other search engines. Maj. Op. at 1167.
But the modern Google is more than a match engine: it
ranks search results, provides prompts beyond what the
user enters, and answers questions. In contrast,
Roommate is a straight match service that searches
information and criteria provided by the user, not
Roommate. It should be afforded no less protection than
Google, Yahoo!, or other search engines.
The majority then argues that "providing neutral tools
to carry out what may be unlawful or illicit searches
does not amount to `development.'" Maj. Op. at 1169.
But this effort to distinguish Google, Yahoo!, and other
search engines from Roommate is unavailing. Under the
majority's definition of "development," these search
engines are equivalent to Roommate. Google
"encourages" or "contributes" (the majority's catch
phrases) to the unlawfulness by offering search tools
that allow the user to perform an allegedly unlawful
match. If a user types into Google's search box, "looking
for a single, Christian, female roommate," and Google
displays responsive listings, Google is surely "materially
contributing to the alleged unlawfulness" of information
created by third parties, by publishing their intention to
discriminate on the basis of protected characteristics. In
the defamation arena, a webhost's publication of a
defamatory statement "materially contributes" to its [521
F.3d 1184] unlawfulness, as publication to third parties is
an element of the offense. At bottom, the majority's
definition of "development" can be tucked in, let out, or
hemmed up to fit almost any search engine, creating
tremendous uncertainty in an area where Congress
expected predictability.
"Development" is not without meaning. In Batzel, we
hinted that the "development of information" that
transforms one into an "information content provider"
is "something more substantial than merely editing
portions of an email and selecting material for
publication." 333 F.3d at 1031. We did not flesh out
further the meaning of "development" because the
editor's alterations of an email message and decision to
publish it did not constitute "development." Id.
Because the statute does not define "development," we
should give the term its ordinary meaning. See San Jose
Christian Coll. v. City of Morgan Hill, 360 F.3d 1024,
1034 (9th Cir.2004) (stating that dictionaries may be
used to determine the "`plain meaning' of a term
undefined by a statute"). "Development" is defined in
Webster's Dictionary as a "gradual advance or growth
through progressive changes." Webster's Third New
International Dictionary 618 (2002). The multiple uses
of "development" and "develop" in other provisions of §
230 give texture to the definition of "development," and
further expose the folly of the majority's ungrounded
definition. See, e.g., § 230(b)(3) (stating that "[i]t is the
policy of the United States to encourage the
development of technologies which maximize user
control over what information is received by
individuals, families, and' schools") (emphasis added).10
Defining "development" in this way keeps intact the
settled rule that the CDA immunizes a webhost who
exercises a publisher's "traditional editorial functions —
such as deciding whether to publish, withdraw, postpone,
or alter content." Batzel, 333 F.3d at 1031 n. 18.11
Applying the plain meaning of "development" to
Roommate's sorting and transmitting of third-party
information demonstrates [521 F.3d 1185] that it was not
transformed into an "information content provider." In
searching, sorting, and transmitting information,
Roommate made no changes to the information
provided to it by users. Even having notice that users
may be using its site to make discriminatory statements
is not sufficient to invade Roommate's immunity. See
Zeran, 129 F.3d at 333 (stating that "liability upon notice
has a chilling effect on the freedom of Internet speech.").
The majority blusters that Roommate develops
information, because it "requir[es] subscribers to
provide the information as a condition of accessing its
services," and "designed its search system so it would
steer users based on the preferences and personal
characteristics that Roommate itself forces subscribers
to disclose." Maj. Op. at 1165, 1167.12 But the majority,
without looking back, races past the plain language of
the statute. That Roommate requires users to answer a
set of prompts to identify characteristics about
themselves does not change the fact that the users have
furnished this information to Roommate for Roommate
to publish in their profiles. Nor do Roommate's prompts
alter the fact that users have chosen to select
characteristics that they find desirable in potential
roommates, and have directed Roommate to search and
compile results responsive to their requests. Moreover,
tagging Roommate with liability for the design of its
search system is dangerous precedent for analyzing
future Internet cases.
Even if Roommate's prompts and drop-down menus
could be construed to seek out, or encourage,
information from users, the CDA does not withhold
immunity for the encouragement or solicitation of
information.13 See Blumenthal, 992 F.Supp. at 52
(stating that "Congress has made a different policy
choice by providing immunity even where the
interactive service provider has an active, even
aggressive role in making available content prepared by
others.") (emphasis added); Gentry, 121 Cal.Rptr.2d at
718 (noting that "enforcing appellants' negligence claim
would place liability on eBay for simply compiling false
and/or misleading content created by the individual
defendants and other coconspirators."). The CDA does
not countenance an exception for the solicitation or
encouragement of information provided by users.
A number of district courts have recently encountered
the claim that an interactive website's solicitation of
information, by requiring user selection of content from
drop-down menus, transformed it into an information
content provider. Unsurprisingly, these courts reached
the same commonsense solution that I reach here: §
230(c)(1) immunizes the interactive service provider.
See Whitney Info. Network, Inc. v. Xcentric Ventures,
LLC, No. 2:04-cv-47-FtM-34SPC, 2008 WL 450095, at
*10, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 11632, at *36 (M.D.Fla. Feb.
15, 2008) (stating that the "mere fact that Xcentric
provides categories from which a poster must make a
selection in order to submit a report on the [] website is
not sufficient to treat Defendants as information
content providers of the reports"); Global Royalties, Ltd.
v. Xcentric Ventures, LLC, No. 07-956-PHX-FJM, 2007
WL 2949002, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 77551 (D.Ariz. Oct.
10, 2007).[521 F.3d 1186] Simply supplying a list of
options from which a user must select options "is minor
and passive participation" that does not defeat CDA
immunity. Global Royalties, 2007 WL 2949002, at *3,
2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 77551, at *9; see also Corbis, 351
F.Supp.2d at 1118 (holding that even though
Amazon.com "may have encouraged third parties to use
the Zshops platform and provided the tools to assist
them, that does not disqualify it from immunity under §
230 because the Zshops vendor ultimately decided what
information to put on its site.").
Carafano presented circumstances virtually
indistinguishable from those before us, yet the majority
comes to the exact opposite conclusion here in denying
immunity for sorting and matching third-party
information provided in response to webhost prompts.
The website in Carafano, an online dating service
named Matchmaker.com, asked its users sixty-two
detailed questions and matched users according to their
responses. We held that § 230(c)(1) immunized the
dating service, and flatly rejected the proposition that
matching, sorting, and publishing user information in
response to webhost prompts abrogated CDA
immunity. Carafano, 339 F.3d at 1124-25. A provider's
"decision to structure the information provided by
users," which enables the provider to "offer additional
features, such as `matching' profiles with similar
characteristics or highly structured searches based on
combinations of multiple choice questions," ultimately
"promotes the expressed Congressional policy `to
promote the continued development of the Internet and
other interactive computer services.'" Id. (quoting §
230(b)(1)). Now the majority narrows Carafano on the
basis that Matchmaker did not prompt the allegedly
libelous information that was provided by a third party.
Maj. Op. at 1171. But the majority makes this distinction
without any language in the statute supporting the
consideration of the webhost's prompting or
solicitation.
The structure of the statute also supports my view that
Congress intended to immunize Roommate's sorting
and publishing of user profiles. An "interactive
computer service" is defined to include an "access
software provider." § 230(f)(2). The statute defines an
"access software provider" as one that provides
"enabling tools" to "filter," "screen," "pick," "choose,"
"analyze," "digest," "search," "forward," "organize," and
"reorganize" content. § 230(f)(4)(A)-(C).
By providing a definition for "access software provider"
that is distinct from the definition of an "information
content provider," and withholding immunity for
"information content providers," the statute makes
resoundingly clear that packaging, sorting, or publishing
third-party information are not the kind of activities
that Congress associated with "information content
providers." Yet these activities describe exactly what
Roommate does through the publication and
distribution of user profiles: Roommate "receives,"
"filters," "digests," and "analyzes" the information
provided by users in response to its registration
prompts, and then "transmits," "organizes," and
"forwards" that information to users in the form of
uniformly organized profiles. Roommate is performing
tasks that Congress recognized as typical of entities that
it intended to immunize.
Finally, consider the logical disconnect of the majority's
opinion. The majority writes — and I agree — that the
openended Comments section contains only third-party
content. Maj. Op. at 1173-75. But if Roommate's search
function permits sorting by key words such as children
or gender, the majority would label Roommate's use of
such criteria as a "discriminatory filtering process." Id. at
1169-70.
[521 F.3d 1187] At a minimum, the CDA protects the
search criteria employed by websites and does not
equate tools that "filter," "screen," "pick," "choose,"
"analyze," "digest," "search," "forward," "organize," and
"reorganize" with the "creation or development" of
information. § 230(f)(4)(A)-(C).
Ramifications of the Majority Opinion
I am troubled by the consequences that the majority's
conclusion poses for the ever-expanding Internet
community. The unwise narrowing of our precedent,
coupled with the mixing and matching of CDA
immunity with substantive liability, make it exceedingly
difficult for website providers to know whether their
activities will be considered immune under the CDA.
We got it right in Carafano, that "[u]nder § 230(c) . . .
so long as a third party willingly provides the essential
published content, the interactive service provider
receives full immunity regardless of the specific editing
or selection process." 339 F.3d at 1124 (quoted in Doe,
474 F.Supp.2d at 847; Chicago Lawyers' Comm. for
Civil Rights Under the Law, Inc. v. Craigslist, Inc., 461
F.Supp.2d 681, 690 n. 7 (N.D.Ill.2006); Dimeo v. Max,
433 F.Supp.2d 523, 530 n. 12 (E.D.Pa.2006); Prickett v.
Infousa, Inc., No. 04:05-CV-10, 2006 WL 887431, at *2,
2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 21867, at *4 (E.D.Tex. Mar. 30,
2006)).
Significantly, § 230(e) expressly exempts from its scope
certain areas of law, such as intellectual property law
and federal criminal laws. § 230(e)(1) ("Nothing in this
section shall be construed to impair the enforcement of
[selected obscenity statutes] or any other Federal
criminal statute."); § 230(e)(2) ("Nothing in this section
shall be construed to limit or expand any law pertaining
to intellectual property."). See also Perfect 10, Inc. v.
CCBill LLC, 488 F.3d 1102, 1118 (9th Cir. 2007). Thus,
for example, a webhost may still be liable as a publisher
or speaker of third-party information that is alleged to
infringe a copyright. Notably, the CDA does not exempt
the FHA and a host of other federal statutes from its
scope. See § 230(e). The FHA existed at the time of the
CDA's enactment, yet Congress did not add it to the list
of specifically enumerated laws for which publisher and
speaker liability was left intact. The absence of a
statutory exemption suggests that Congress did not
intend to provide special case status to the FHA in
connection with immunity under the CDA. See TRW
Inc. v. Andrews, 534 U.S. 19, 28, 122 S.Ct. 441, 151
L.Ed.2d 339 (2001) (stating that "[w]here Congress
explicitly enumerates certain exceptions to a general
prohibition, additional exceptions are not to be implied,
in the absence of evidence of a contrary legislative
intent.") (citation omitted); see also Craigslist, 519 F.3d
at ____ (stating that "[t]he question is not whether
Congress gave any thought to the Fair Housing Act, but
whether it excluded § 3604(c) from the reach of §
230(c)(1)").
Anticipating the morphing of the Internet and the limits
of creative genius and entrepreneurship that fuel its
development is virtually impossible. However, Congress
explicitly drafted the law to permit this unfettered
development of the Internet. Had Congress discovered
that, over time, courts across the country have created
more expansive immunity than it originally envisioned
under the CDA, Congress could have amended the law.
But it has not. In fact, just six years ago, Congress
approved of the broad immunity that courts have
uniformly accorded interactive webhosts under § 230(c).
In 2002, Congress passed the "Dot Kids Implementation
and Efficiency Act," which established a new "kids.us"
domain for material that is safe for children. Pub.L. No.
107-317, 116 Stat. 2766. Congress stated that the
statutory protections of [521 F.3d 1188] § 230(c) were
extended to certain entities that operated within the
new domain. 47 U.S.C. § 941 (stating that certain
entities "are deemed to be interactive computer services
for purposes of § 230(c)"). The Committee Report that
accompanied the statute declared:
The Committee notes that ISPs have successfully defended many
lawsuits using section 230(c). The courts have correctly interpreted
section 230(c), which was aimed at protecting against liability for
such claims as negligence (See, e.g., Doe v. America Online, 783
So.2d 1010 (Fla.2001)) and defamation (Ben Ezra, Weinstein, and
Co. v. America Online, 206 F.3d 980 (2000); Zeran v. America
Online, 129 F.3d 327 (1997)). The Committee intends these
interpretations of section 230(c) to be equally applicable to those
entities covered by H.R. 3833.
H.R. REP. No. 107-449, 2002 U.S.C.C.A.N. 1741, 1749
(emphasis added). These statements "reflect the
Committee's intent that the existing statutory
construction," i.e., broad immunity for interactive
webhosts, "be maintained in a new legislative context."
Barrett, 146 P.3d at 523 n. 17 (discussing H.R.Rep. No.
107-449); see also Heckler v. Turner, 470 U.S. 184, 209,
105 S.Ct. 1138, 84 L.Ed.2d 138 (1985) (noting that
subsequent legislative history can shed useful light on
Congressional intent). This express Congressional
approval of the courts' interpretation of § 230(c)(1), six
years after its enactment, advises us to stay the course of
"robust" webhost immunity.
The consequences of the majority's interpretation are
far-reaching. Its position will chill speech on the
Internet and impede "the continued development of the
Internet and other interactive computer services and
other interactive media." § 230(b)(1). To the extent the
majority strips immunity because of sorting, channeling,
and categorizing functions, it guts the heart of §
230(c)(1) immunity. Countless websites operate just like
Roommate: they organize information provided by their
users into a standardized format, and provide structured
searches to help users find information. These sites, and
their attendant display, search, and inquiry tools, are an
indispensable part of the Internet tool box. Putting a lid
on the sorting and searching functions of interactive
websites stifles the core of their services.
To the extent the majority strips immunity because the
information or query may be illegal under some statute
or federal law, this circumstance puts the webhost in the
role of a policeman for the laws of the fifty states and the
federal system. There are not enough Net Nannies in
cyberspace to implement this restriction, and the burden
of filtering content would be unfathomable.
To the extent the majority strips immunity because a
site solicits or actively encourages content, the result is a
direct restriction on the free exchange of ideas and
information on the Internet. As noted in the amici
curiae brief of the news organizations, online news
organization routinely solicit third-party information.
Were the websites to face host liability for this content,
they "would have no choice but to severely limit its use"
and "[s]heer economics would dictate that vast
quantities of valuable information be eliminated from
websites." Brief of Amici Curiae News Organizations in
Support of Roommate.com, LLC 22.
To the extent the majority strips immunity because a
website "materially contributed" to the content or
output of a website by "specialization" of content, this
approach would essentially swallow the immunity
provision. The combination of solicitation, sorting, and
potential for liability would put virtually every
interactive website in this category. Having a website
directed to Christians, Muslims, gays, disabled [521 F.3d
1189] veterans, or childless couples could land the
website provider in hot water.14
Because the statute itself is cumbersome to interpret in
light of today's Internet architecture, and because the
decision today will ripple through the billions of web
pages already online, and the countless pages to come in
the future, I would take a cautious, careful, and precise
approach to the restriction of immunity, not the broad
swath cut by the majority. I respectfully dissent and
would affirm the district court's judgment that
Roommate is entitled to immunity under § 230(c)(1) of
the CDA, subject to examination of whether the bare
inquiry itself is unlawful.