We plumb the depths of the immunity provided by
section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of
1996 ("CDA").
Facts 1
Defendant Roommate.com, LLC ("Roommate")
operates a website designed to match people renting out
spare rooms with people looking for a place to live.2 At
the time of the district court's disposition, Roommate's
website featured approximately 150,000 active listings
and received around a million page views a day.
Roommate seeks to profit by collecting revenue from
advertisers and subscribers.
Before subscribers can search listings or post3 housing
opportunities on Roommate's website, they must create
profiles, a process that requires them to answer a series
of questions. In addition to requesting basic information
— such as name, location and email address —
Roommate requires each subscriber to disclose his sex,
sexual orientation and whether he would bring children
to a household. Each subscriber must also describe his
preferences in roommates with respect to the same
three criteria: sex, sexual orientation and whether they
will bring children to the household. The site also
encourages subscribers to provide "Additional
Comments" describing themselves and their desired
roommate in an open-ended essay. After a new
subscriber completes the application, Roommate
assembles his answers into a "profile page." The profile
page [521 F.3d 1162] displays the subscriber's pseudonym,
his description and his preferences, as divulged through
answers to Roommate's questions.
Subscribers can choose between two levels of service:
Those using the site's free service level can create their
own personal profile page, search the profiles of others
and send personal email messages. They can also receive
periodic emails from Roommate, informing them of
available housing opportunities matching their
preferences. Subscribers who pay a monthly fee also
gain the ability to read emails from other users, and to
view other subscribers' "Additional Comments."
The Fair Housing Councils of the San Fernando Valley
and San Diego ("Councils") sued Roommate in federal
court, alleging that Roommate's business violates the
federal Fair Housing Act ("FHA"), 42 U.S.C. § 3601 et
seq., and California housing discrimination laws.4
Councils claim that Roommate is effectively a housing
broker doing online what it may not lawfully do offline.
The district court held that Roommate is immune
under section 230 of the CDA, 47 U.S.C. § 230(c), and
dismissed the federal claims without considering
whether Roommate's actions violated the FHA. The
court then declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction
over the state law claims. Councils appeal the dismissal
of the FHA claim and Roommate cross-appeals the
denial of attorneys' fees.
Analysis
Section 230 of the CDA5 immunizes providers of
interactive computer services6 against liability arising
from content created by third parties: "No provider . . .
of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the
publisher or speaker of any information provided by
another information content provider." 47 U.S.C. §
230(c).7 This grant of immunity applies only if the
interactive computer service provider is not also an
"information content provider," which is defined as
someone who is "responsible, in whole or in part, for
the creation or development of the offending content.
Id. § 230(f)(3).
A website operator can be both a service provider and a
content provider: If it passively displays content that is
created entirely by third parties, then it is only a service
provider with respect to that content. But as to content
that it creates itself, or is "responsible, in whole or in
part" for creating or developing, the website is also a
content provider. Thus, a website may be immune from
liability for [521 F.3d 1163] some of the content it
displays to the public but be subject to liability for other
content.8
Section 230 was prompted by a state court case holding
Prodigy9 responsible for a libelous message posted on
one of its financial message boards.10 See Stratton
Oakmont, Inc. v. Prodigy Servs. Co., 1995 WL 323710
(N.Y.Sup.Ct. May 24, 1995) (unpublished). The court
there found that Prodigy had become a "publisher"
under state law because it voluntarily deleted some
messages from its message boards "on the basis of
offensiveness and `bad taste,'" and was therefore legally
responsible for the content of defamatory messages that
it failed to delete. Id. at *4. The Stratton Oakmont court
reasoned that Prodigy's decision to perform some
voluntary self-policing made it akin to a newspaper
publisher, and thus responsible for messages on its
bulletin board that defamed third parties. The court
distinguished Prodigy from CompuServe,11 which had
been released from liability in a similar defamation case
because CompuServe "had no opportunity to review the
contents of the publication at issue before it was
uploaded into CompuServe's computer banks." Id.; see
Cubby, Inc. v. CompuServe, Inc., 776 F.Supp. 135, 140
(S.D.N.Y.1991). Under the reasoning of Stratton
Oakmont, online service providers that voluntarily filter
some messages become liable for all messages
transmitted, whereas providers that bury their heads in
the sand and ignore problematic posts altogether escape
liability. Prodigy claimed that the "sheer volume" of
message board postings it received — at the time, over
60,000 a day — made manual review of every message
impossible; thus, if it were forced to choose between
taking responsibility for all messages and deleting no
messages at all, it would have to choose the latter course.
Stratton Oakmont, 1995 WL 323710 at *3.
In passing section 230, Congress sought to spare
interactive computer services this grim choice by
allowing them to perform some editing on usergenerated
content without thereby becoming liable for
all defamatory or otherwise unlawful messages that they
didn't edit or delete. In other words, Congress sought to
immunize the removal of user-generated content, not
the creation of content: "[S]ection [230] provides `Good
Samaritan' protections from civil liability for providers .
. . of an interactive computer service for actions to
restrict . . . access to objectionable online material. One
of the specific purposes of this section is to overrule
Stratton-Oakmont [sic] v. Prodigy and any other similar
decisions which have treated such providers . . . as
publishers or speakers of content that is not their own
because they have restricted access to objectionable
material." H.R.Rep. No. 104-458 (1996) (Conf.Rep.), as
reprinted in 1996 U.S.C.C.A.N. 10 (emphasis added).12
Indeed, the section is titled "Protection for `good
Samaritan' blocking and [521 F.3d 1164] screening of
offensive material" and, as the Seventh Circuit recently
held, the substance of section 230(c) can and should be
interpreted consistent with its caption. Chicago
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, Inc. v.
craigslist, Inc., 516 F.3d 666, ____ (7th Cir.2008)
(quoting Doe v. GTE Corp., 347 F.3d 655, 659-60 (7th
Cir.2003)).
With this backdrop in mind, we examine three specific
functions performed by Roommate that are alleged to
violate the Fair Housing Act and California law.
1. Councils first argue that the questions Roommate
poses to prospective subscribers during the registration
process violate the Fair Housing Act and the analogous
California law. Councils allege that requiring subscribers
to disclose their sex, family status and sexual orientation
"indicates" an intent to discriminate against them, and
thus runs afoul of both the FHA and state law.13
Roommate created the questions and choice of answers,
and designed its website registration process around
them. Therefore, Roommate is undoubtedly the
"information content provider" as to the questions and
can claim no immunity for posting them on its website,
or for forcing subscribers to answer them as a condition
of using its services.
Here, we must determine whether Roommate has
immunity under the CDA because Councils have at least
a plausible claim that Roommate violated state and
federal law by merely posing the questions. We need
not decide whether any of Roommate's questions
actually violate the Fair' Housing Act or California law,
or whether they are protected by the First Amendment
or other constitutional guarantees, see craigslist, at
1166-67; we leave those issues for the district court on
remand. Rather, we examine the scope of plaintiffs'
substantive claims only insofar as necessary to
determine whether section 230 immunity applies.
However, we note that asking questions certainly can
violate the Fair Housing Act and analogous laws in the
physical world.14 For example, a real estate broker may
not inquire as to the race of a prospective buyer, and an
employer may not inquire as to the religion of a
prospective employee. If such questions are unlawful
when posed face-to-face or by telephone, they don't
magically become lawful when asked electronically
online. The Communications Decency Act was not
meant to create a lawless noman's-land on the
Internet.15
[521 F.3d 1165] Councils also claim that requiring
subscribers to answer the questions as a condition of
using Roommate's services unlawfully "cause[s]"
subscribers to make a "statement . . . with respect to the
sale or rental of a dwelling that indicates [a] preference,
limitation, or discrimination," in violation of 42 U.S.C. §
3604(c). The CDA does not grant immunity for
inducing third parties to express illegal preferences.
Roommate's own acts — posting the questionnaire and
requiring answers to it — are entirely its doing and thus
section 230 of the CDA does not apply to them.
Roommate is entitled to no immunity.16
2. Councils also charge that Roommate's development
and display of subscribers' discriminatory preferences is
unlawful. Roommate publishes a "profile page" for each
subscriber on its website. The page describes the client's
personal information — such as his sex, sexual
orientation and whether he has children — as well as the
attributes of the housing situation he seeks. The content
of these pages is drawn directly from the registration
process: For example, Roommate requires subscribers to
specify, using a drop-down menu17 provided by
Roommate, whether they are "Male" or "Female" and
then displays that information on the profile page.
Roommate also requires subscribers who are listing
available housing to disclose whether there are currently
"Straight male(s)," "Gay male(s)," "Straight female(s)" or
"Lesbian(s)" living in the dwelling. Subscribers who are
seeking housing must make a selection from a dropdown
menu, again provided by Roommate, to indicate
whether they are willing to live with "Straight or gay"
males, only with "Straight" males, only with "Gay" males
or, with "No males." Similarly, Roommate requires
subscribers listing housing to disclose whether there are
"Children present" or "Children not present" and
requires housing seekers to say "I will live with children"
or "I will not live with children." Roommate then
displays these answers, along with other information,
on the subscriber's profile page. This information is
obviously included to help subscribers decide which
housing opportunities to pursue and which to bypass. In
addition, Roommate itself uses this information to
channel subscribers away from listings where the
individual offering housing has expressed preferences
that aren't compatible with the subscriber's answers.
The dissent tilts at windmills when it shows, quite
convincingly, that Roommate's subscribers are
information content providers who create the profiles
by picking among options and providing their own
answers. Dissent at 1180-82. There is no disagreement
on this point. But, the fact that users are information
content providers does not preclude Roommate from
also being an information content provider by helping
"develop" at least "in part" the information in the
profiles. As we explained in Batzel, the party responsible
for putting information online may be subject to
liability, even if the information originated with a user.
See Batzel v. Smith, 333 F.3d 1018, 1033 (9th
Cir.2003).18
[521 F.3d 1166] Here, the part of the profile that is alleged
to offend the Fair Housing Act and state housing
discrimination laws — the information about sex, family
status and sexual orientation — is provided by
subscribers in response to Roommate's questions, which
they cannot refuse to answer if they want to use
defendant's services. By requiring subscribers to provide
the information as a condition of accessing its service,
and by providing a limited set of pre-populated answers,
Roommate becomes much more than a passive
transmitter of information provided by others; it
becomes the developer, at least in part, of that
information. And section 230 provides immunity only if
the interactive computer service does not "creat[e] or
develop[]" the information "in whole or in part." See 47
U.S.C. § 230(f)(3).
Our dissenting colleague takes a much narrower view of
what it means to "develop" information online, and
concludes that Roommate does not develop the
information because "[a]ll Roommate does is to provide
a form with options for standardized answers." Dissent
at 1182. But Roommate does much more than provide
options. To begin with, it asks discriminatory questions
that even the dissent grudgingly admits are not entitled
to CDA immunity. Dissent at 1177 n. 5. The FHA
makes it unlawful to ask certain discriminatory
questions for a very good reason: Unlawful questions
solicit (a.k.a."develop") unlawful answers. Not only does
Roommate ask these questions, Roommate makes
answering the discriminatory questions a condition of
doing business. This is no different from a real estate
broker in real life saying, "Tell me whether you're
Jewish or you can find yourself another broker." When
a business enterprise extracts such information from
potential customers as a condition of accepting them as
clients, it is no stretch to say that the enterprise is
responsible, at least in part, for developing that
information. For the dissent to claim that the
information in such circumstances is "created solely by"
the customer, and that the business has not helped in the
least to develop it, Dissent at 1181-82, strains both
credulity and English.19
Roommate also argues that it is not responsible for the
information on the profile page because it is each
subscriber's action that leads to publication of his
particular profile — in other words, the user pushes the
last button or takes the last act before publication. We
are not convinced that this is even true,20 but don't see
why it matters anyway. The projectionist in the theater
may push the last button before a film is displayed on
the screen, but surely this doesn't make him the sole
producer of [521 F.3d 1167] the movie. By any reasonable
use of the English language, Roommate is "responsible"
at least "in part" for each subscriber's profile page,
because every such page is a collaborative effort between
Roommate and the subscriber.
Similarly, Roommate is not entitled to CDA immunity
for the operation of its search system, which filters
listings, or of its email notification system, which directs
emails to subscribers according to discriminatory
criteria.21 Roommate designed its search system so it
would steer users based on the preferences and personal
characteristics that Roommate itself forces subscribers
to disclose. If Roommate has no immunity for asking
the discriminatory questions, as we concluded above, see
pp. 1163-65 supra, it can certainly have no immunity for
using the answers to the unlawful questions to limit
who has access to housing.
For example, a subscriber who self-identifies as a "Gay
male" will not receive email notifications of new
housing opportunities supplied by owners who limit the
universe of acceptable tenants to "Straight male(s),"
"Straight female(s)" and "Lesbian(s)." Similarly,
subscribers with children will not be notified of new
listings where the owner specifies "no children."
Councils charge that limiting the information a
subscriber can access based on that subscriber's
protected status violates the Fair Housing Act and state
housing discrimination laws. It is, Councils allege, no
different from a real estate broker saying to a client:
"Sorry, sir, but I can't show you any listings on this
block because you are [gay/female/black/a parent]." If
such screening is prohibited when practiced in person
or by telephone, we see no reason why Congress would
have wanted to make it lawful to profit from it online.
Roommate's search function is similarly designed to
steer users based on discriminatory criteria. Roommate's
search engine thus differs materially from generic search
engines such as Google, Yahoo! and MSN Live Search,
in that Roommate designed its system to use allegedly
unlawful criteria so as to limit the results of each search,
and to force users to participate in its discriminatory
process. In other words, Councils allege that
Roommate's search is designed to make it more difficult
or impossible for individuals with certain protected
characteristics to find housing — something the law
prohibits. By contrast, ordinary search engines do not
use unlawful criteria to limit the scope of searches
conducted on them, nor are they designed to achieve
illegal ends — as Roommate's search function is alleged
to do here. Therefore, such search engines play no part
in the "development" of any unlawful searches. See 47
U.S.C. § 230(f)(3).
It's true that the broadest sense of the term "develop"
could include the functions of an ordinary search engine
— indeed, just about any function performed by a
website. But to read the term so broadly would defeat
the purposes of section 230 by swallowing up every bit
of the immunity that the section otherwise provides. At
the same time, reading the exception for co-developers
as applying only to content that originates entirely with
the website — as the dissent would seem to suggest —
ignores the words "development . . . in part" in the
statutory passage "creation or development in whole or
in part." 47 U.S.C. § 230(f)(3) (emphasis added). We
believe that both the immunity for passive conduits and
the exception for co-developers must be given their
proper scope and, to that end, we interpret the term
"development" as referring not merely [521 F.3d 1168] to
augmenting the content generally, but to materially
contributing to its alleged unlawfulness. In other words,
a website helps to develop unlawful content, and thus
falls within the exception to section 230, if it contributes
materially to the alleged illegality of the conduct.
The dissent accuses us of "rac[ing] past the plain
language of the statute," dissent at 1185, but we clearly
do pay close attention to the statutory language,
particularly the word "develop;" which we spend many
pages exploring. The dissent may disagree with our
definition of the term, which is entirely fair, but surely
our dissenting colleague is mistaken in suggesting we
ignore the term. Nor is the statutory language quite as
plain as the dissent would have it. Dissent at 1183-85.
Quoting selectively from the dictionary, the dissent
comes up with an exceedingly narrow definition of this
rather complex and multi faceted term.22 Dissent at 1184
(defining development as "gradual advance or growth
through progressive changes") (quoting Webster's
Third New International Dictionary 618 (2002)). The
dissent does not pause to consider how such a definition
could apply to website content at all, as it excludes the
kinds of swift and disorderly changes that are the
hallmark of growth on the Internet. Had our dissenting
colleague looked just a few lines lower on the same page
of the same edition of the same dictionary, she would
have found another definition of "development" that is
far more suitable to the context in which we operate:
"making usable or available." Id. The dissent does not
explain why the definition it has chosen reflects the
statute's "plain meaning," while the ones it bypasses do
not.
More fundamentally, the dissent does nothing at all to
grapple with the difficult statutory problem posed by the
fact that section 230(c) uses both "create" and "develop"
as separate bases for loss of immunity. Everything that
the dissent includes within its cramped definition of
"development" fits just as easily within the definition of
"creation" — which renders the term "development"
superfluous. The dissent makes no attempt to explain or
offer examples as to how its interpretation of the statute
leaves room for "development" as a separate basis for a
website to lose its immunity, yet we are advised by the
Supreme Court that we must give meaning to all
statutory terms, avoiding redundancy or duplication
wherever possible. See Park `N Fly, Inc. v. Dollar Park &
Fly, Inc., 469 U.S. 189, 197, 105 S.Ct. 658, 83 L.Ed.2d
582 (1985).
While content to pluck the "plain meaning" of the
statute from a dictionary definition that predates the
Internet by decades, compare Webster's Third New
International Dictionary 618 (1963) with Webster's
Third New International Dictionary 618 (2002) (both
containing "gradual advance or growth through
progressive changes"), the dissent overlooks the far
more relevant definition of "[web] content
development" in Wikipedia: "the process of researching,
writing, gathering, organizing and editing information
for publication on web sites." Wikipedia, Content
Development (Web), http://en.wikipedia.
org/w/index.php?title=Content — development — web.
& oldid=188219503 (last visited Mar. 19, 2008). Our
interpretation of "development" is entirely in line with
the context-appropriate meaning of the term, [521 F.3d
1169] and easily fits the activities Roommate engages in.
In an abundance of caution, and to avoid the kind of
misunderstanding the dissent seems to encourage, we
offer a few examples to elucidate what does and does not
amount to "development" under section 230 of the
Communications Decency Act: If an individual uses an
ordinary search engine to query for a "white roommate,"
the search engine has not contributed to i any alleged
unlawfulness in the individual's conduct; providing
neutral tools to carry out what may be unlawful or illicit
searches does not amount to "development" for
purposes of the immunity exception. A dating website
that requires users to enter their sex, race, religion and
marital status through drop-down menus, and that
provides means for users to search along the same lines,
retains its CDA immunity insofar as it does not
contribute to any alleged illegality;23 this immunity is
retained even if the website is sued for libel based on
these characteristics because the website would not have
contributed materially to any alleged defamation.
Similarly, a housing website that allows users to specify
whether they will or will not receive emails by means of
user-defined criteria might help some users exclude
email from other users of a particular race or sex.
However, that website would be immune, so long as it
does not require the use of discriminatory criteria. A
website operator who edits user-created content — such
as by correcting spelling, removing obscenity or
trimming for length — retains his "immunity for any
illegality in the user-created content, provided that the
edits are unrelated to the illegality. However, a website
operator who edits in a manner that contributes to the
alleged illegality — such as by removing the word "not"
from a user's message reading "[Name] did not steal the
artwork" in order to transform an innocent message
into a libelous one — is directly involved in the alleged
illegality and thus not immune.24
Here, Roommate's connection to the discriminatory
filtering process is direct and palpable: Roommate
designed its search and email systems to limit the listings
available to subscribers based on sex, sexual orientation
and presence of children.25 Roommate selected the
criteria used to hide listings, and Councils allege that the
act of hiding certain listings is itself unlawful under the
Fair Housing Act, which prohibits brokers from steering
clients in accordance with discriminatory [521 F.3d 1170]
preferences.26 We need not decide the merits of
Councils' claim to hold that Roommate is sufficiently
involved with the design and operation of the search
and email systems — which are engineered to limit
access to housing on the basis of the protected
characteristics elicited by the registration process — so
as to forfeit any immunity to which it was otherwise
entitled under section 230.
Roommate's situation stands in stark contrast to
Stratton Oakmont, the case Congress sought to reverse
through passage of section 230. There, defendant
Prodigy was held liable for a user's unsolicited message
because it attempted to remove some problematic
content from its website, but didn't remove enough.
Here, Roommate is not being sued for removing some
harmful messages while failing to remove others;
instead, it is being sued for the predictable consequences
of creating a website designed to solicit and enforce
housing preferences that are alleged to be illegal.
We take this opportunity to clarify two of our previous
rulings regarding the scope of section 230 immunity.
Today's holding sheds additional light on Batzel v.
Smith, 333 F.3d 1018 (9th Cir.2003). There, the editor
of an email newsletter received a tip about some
artwork, which the tipster falsely alleged to be stolen.
The newsletter editor incorporated the tipster's email
into the next issue of his newsletter and added a short
headnote, which he then emailed to his subscribers.27
The art owner sued for libel and a split panel held the
newsletter editor to be immune under section 230 of the
CDA.28
Our opinion is entirely consistent with that part of
Batzel which holds that an editor's minor changes to the
spelling, grammar and length of third-party content do
not strip him of section 230 immunity. None of those
changes contributed to the libelousness of the message,
so they do not add up to "development" as we interpret
the term. See pp. 1167-69 supra. Batzel went on to hold
that the editor could be liable for selecting the tipster's
email for inclusion in the newsletter, depending on
whether or not the tipster had tendered the piece to the
editor for posting online, and remanded for a
determination of that issue. Batzel, 333 F.3d at 1035.
The distinction drawn by Batzel anticipated the
approach we take today. As Batzel explained, if the
tipster tendered the material for posting online, then the
editor's job was, essentially, to determine whether or
not to prevent its posting — precisely the kind of activity
for which section 230 was meant to provide immunity.29
And any activity that can be boiled [521 F.3d 1171] down
to deciding whether to exclude material that third
parties seek to post online is perforce immune under
section 230. See p. 1171-72 & n. 32 infra. But if the
editor publishes material that he does not believe was
tendered to him for posting online, then he is the one
making the affirmative decision to publish, and so he
contributes materially to its allegedly unlawful
dissemination. He is thus properly deemed a developer
and not entitled to CDA immunity. See Batzel, 333 F.3d
at 1033.30
We must also clarify the reasoning undergirding our
holding in Carafano v. Metrosplash.com, Inc., 339 F.3d
1119 (9th Cir.2003), as we used language there that was
unduly broad. In Carafano, an unknown prankster
impersonating actress Christianne Carafano created a
profile for her on an online dating site. The profile
included Carafano's home address and suggested that
she was looking for an unconventional liaison. When
Carafano received threatening phone calls, she sued the
dating site for publishing the unauthorized profile. The
site asserted immunity under section 230. We correctly
held that the website was immune, but incorrectly
suggested that it could never be liable because "no
[dating] profile has any content until a user actively
creates it." Id. at 1124. As we explain above, see pp.
1165-69 supra, even if the data are supplied by third
parties, a website operator may still contribute to the
content's illegality and thus be liable as a developer.31
Providing immunity every time a website uses data
initially obtained from third parties would eviscerate the
exception to section 230 for "develop[ing]" unlawful
content "in whole or in part." 47 U.S.C. § 230(f)(3).
We believe a more plausible rationale for the
unquestionably correct result in Carafano is this: The
allegedly libelous content there — the false implication
that Carafano was unchaste — was created and
developed entirely by the malevolent user, without
prompting or help from the website operator. To be
sure, the website provided neutral tools, which the
anonymous dastard used to publish the libel, but the
website did absolutely nothing to encourage the posting
of defamatory content — indeed, the defamatory posting
was contrary to the website's express policies. The claim
against the website was, in effect, that it failed to review
each user-created profile to ensure that it wasn't
defamatory. That is precisely the kind of [521 F.3d 1172]
activity for which Congress intended to grant absolution
with the passage of section 230. With respect to the
defamatory content, the website operator was merely a
passive conduit and thus could not be held liable for
failing to detect and remove it.32
By contrast, Roommate both elicits the allegedly illegal
content and makes aggressive use of it in conducting its
business. Roommate does not merely provide a
framework that could be utilized for proper or improper
purposes; rather, Roommate's work in developing the
discriminatory questions, discriminatory answers and
discriminatory search mechanism is directly related to
the alleged illegality of the site. Unlike Carafano, where
the website operator had nothing to do with the user's
decision to enter a celebrity's name and personal
information in an otherwise licit dating service, here,
Roommate is directly involved with developing and
enforcing a system that subjects subscribers to allegedly
discriminatory housing practices.
Our ruling today also dovetails with another facet of
Carafano: The mere fact that an interactive computer
service "classifies user characteristics . . . does not
transform [it] into a `developer' of the `underlying
misinformation.'" Carafano, 339 F.3d at 1124. Carafano,
like Batzel, correctly anticipated our common-sense
interpretation of the term "develop[]" in section 230. Of
course, any classification of information, like the sorting
of dating profiles by the type of relationship sought in
Carafano, could be construed as "develop[ment]" under
an unduly broad reading of the term. But, once again,
such a broad reading would sap section 230 of all
meaning.
The salient fact in Carafano was that the website's
classifications of user characteristics did absolutely
nothing to enhance the defamatory sting of the message,
to encourage defamation or to make defamation easier:
The site provided neutral tools specifically designed to
match romantic partners depending on their voluntary
inputs. By sharp contrast, Roommate's website is
designed to force subscribers to divulge protected
characteristics and discriminatory preferences, and to
match those who have rooms with those who are
looking for rooms based on criteria that appear to be
prohibited by the FHA.33
[521 F.3d 1173] 3. Councils finally argue that Roommate
should be held liable for the discriminatory statements
displayed in the "Additional Comments" section of
profile pages. At the end of the registration process, on a
separate page from the other registration steps,
Roommate prompts subscribers to "tak[e] a moment to
personalize your profile by writing a paragraph or two
describing yourself and what you are looking for in a
roommate." The subscriber is presented with a blank
text box, in which he can type as much or as little about
himself as he wishes. Such essays are visible only to
paying subscribers.
Subscribers provide a variety of provocative, and often
very revealing, answers. The contents range from
subscribers who "[p]ref[er] white Male roommates" or
require that "[t]he person applying for the room MUST
be a BLACK GAY MALE" to those who are "NOT
looking for black muslims." Some common themes are a
desire to live without "drugs, kids or animals" or
"smokers, kids or druggies," while a few subscribers
express more particular preferences, such as preferring
to live in a home free of "psychos or anyone on mental
medication." Some subscribers are just looking for
someone who will get along with their significant
other34 or with their most significant Other.35
Roommate publishes these comments as written.36 It
does not provide any specific guidance as to what the
essay should contain, nor does it urge subscribers to
input [521 F.3d 1174] discriminatory preferences.
Roommate is not responsible, in whole or in part, for
the development of this content, which comes entirely
from subscribers and is passively displayed by
Roommate. Without reviewing every essay, Roommate
would have no way to distinguish unlawful
discriminatory preferences from perfectly legitimate
statements. Nor can there be any doubt that this
information was tendered to Roommate for publication
online. See pp. 1170-71 supra. This is precisely the kind
of situation for which section 230 was designed to
provide immunity. See pp. 1162-64 supra.
The fact that Roommate encourages subscribers to
provide something in response to the prompt is not
enough to make it a "develop[er]" of the information
under the common-sense interpretation of the term we
adopt today. It is entirely consistent with Roommate's
business model to have subscribers disclose as much
about themselves and their preferences as they are
willing to provide. But Roommate does not tell
subscribers what kind of information they should or
must include as "Additional Comments," and certainly
does not encourage or enhance any discriminatory
content created by users. Its simple, generic prompt does
not make it a developer of the information posted.37
Councils argue that — given the context of the
discriminatory questions presented earlier in the
registration process — the "Additional Comments"
prompt impliedly suggests that subscribers should make
statements expressing a desire to discriminate on the
basis of protected classifications; in other words,
Councils allege that, by encouraging some
discriminatory preferences, Roommate encourages
other discriminatory preferences when it gives
subscribers a chance to describe themselves. But the
encouragement that bleeds over from one part of the
registration process to another is extremely weak, if it
exists at all. Such weak encouragement cannot strip a
website of its section 230 immunity, lest that immunity
be rendered meaningless as a practical matter.38
We must keep firmly in mind that this is an immunity
statute we are expounding, a provision enacted to
protect websites against the evil of liability for failure to
remove offensive content. See pp. 1162-64 supra.
Websites are complicated enterprises, and there will
always be close cases where a clever lawyer could argue
that something the website operator did encouraged the
illegality. Such close cases, we believe, must be resolved
in favor of immunity, lest we cut the heart out of section
230 by forcing websites to face death by ten thousand
duck-bites, fighting off claims that they promoted or
encouraged — or at least tacitly assented to — the
illegality of third parties. Where it is very clear that the
website directly participates in developing the alleged
illegality — as it is clear here with respect to Roommate's
questions, answers and the resulting profile pages —
immunity will be lost. But in cases of enhancement by
implication or [521 F.3d 1175] development by inference
— such as with respect to the "Additional Comments"
here — section 230 must be interpreted to protect
websites not merely from ultimate liability, but from
having to fight costly and protracted legal battles.
The dissent prophesies doom and gloom for countless
Internet services, Dissent at 1183-84, but fails to
recognize that we hold part of Roommate's service
entirely immune from liability. The search engines the
dissent worries about, id., closely resemble the
"Additional Comments" section of Roommate's website.
Both involve a generic text prompt with no direct
encouragement to perform illegal searches or to publish
illegal content. We hold Roommate immune and there
is no reason to believe that future courts will have any
difficulty applying this principle.39 The message to
website operators is clear: If you don't encourage illegal
content, or design your website to require users to input
illegal content, you will be immune.
We believe that this distinction is consistent with the
intent of Congress to preserve the free-flowing nature
of Internet speech and commerce without unduly
prejudicing the enforcement of other important state
and federal laws. When Congress passed section 230 it
didn't' intend to prevent the enforcement of all laws
online; rather, it sought to encourage interactive
computer services that provide users neutral tools to
post content online to police that content without fear
that through their "good Samaritan . . . screening of
offensive material," 47 U.S.C. § 230(c), they would
become liable for every single message posted by third
parties on their website.
* * *
In light of our determination that the CDA does not
provide immunity to Roommate for all of the content of
its website and email newsletters, we remand for the
district court to determine in the first instance whether
the alleged actions for which Roommate is not immune
violate the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. § 3604(c).40 We
vacate the dismissal of the state law claims so that the
district court may reconsider whether to exercise its
supplemental jurisdiction in light of our ruling on the
federal claims. Fredenburg v. Contra Costa County
Dep't of Health Servs., 172 F.3d 1176, 1183 (9th
Cir.1999). We deny Roommate's [521 F.3d 1176] crossappeal
of the denial of attorneys' fees and costs; Councils
prevail on some of their arguments before us so their
case is perforce not frivolous.
REVERSED in part, VACATED in part, AFFIRMED in
part and REMANDED. 