In his complaint, obviously home drawn, plaintiff
attempts to assert a series of grievances against the
Collector of Customs at the Port of New York growing
out of his endeavors to import merchandise from Italy
"of great value," consisting of bottles of "tonics." We
may pass certain of his claims as either inadequate or
inadequately stated and consider only these two: (1) that
on the auction day, October 9, 1940, when defendant
sold the merchandise at "public custom," "he sold my
merchandise to another bidder with my price of $110,
and not of his price of $120," and (2) "that three weeks
before the sale, two cases, of 19 bottles each case,
disappeared." Plaintiff does not make wholly clear how
these goods came into the collector's hands, since he
alleges compliance with the revenue laws; but he does
say he made a claim for "refund of merchandise which
was two-thirds paid in Milano, Italy," and that the
collector denied the claim. These and other
circumstances alleged indicate (what, indeed, plaintiff's
brief asserts) that his original dispute was with his
consignor as to whether anything more was due upon
the merchandise, and that the collector, having held it
for a year (presumably as unclaimed merchandise under
19 U.S.C.A. § 1491), then sold it, or such part of it as
was left, at public auction. For his asserted injuries
plaintiff claimed $5,000 damages, together with interest
and costs, against the defendant individually and as
collector. This complaint was dismissed by the District
Court, with leave, however, to plaintiff to amend, on
motion of the United States Attorney, appearing for the
defendant, on the ground that it "fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action."
[139 F.2d 775] Thereupon plaintiff filed an amended
complaint, wherein, with an obviously heightened
conviction that he was being unjustly treated, he
vigorously reiterates his claims, including those quoted
above and now stated as that his "medicinal extracts"
were given to the Springdale Distilling Company "with
my betting [bidding?] price of $110: and not their price
of $120," and "It isnt so easy to do away with two cases
with 37 bottles of one quart. Being protected, they can
take this chance." An earlier paragraph suggests that
defendant had explained the loss of the two cases by
"saying that they had leaked, which could never be true
in the mauner they were bottled." On defendant's
motion for dismissal on the same ground as before, the
court made a final judgment dismissing the complaint,
and plaintiff now comes to us with increased volubility,
if not clarity.
It would seem, however, that he has stated enough to
withstand a mere formal motion, directed only to the
face of the complaint, and that here is another instance
of judicial haste which in the long run makes waste.
Under the new rules of civil procedure, there is no
pleading requirement of stating "facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action," but only that there be "a
short and plain statement of the claim showing that the
pleader is entitled to relief," Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure, rule 8(a), 28 U.S.C.A. following section 723c;
and the motion for dismissal under Rule 12(b) is for
failure to state "a claim upon which relief can be
granted." The District Court does not state why it
concluded that the complaints showed no claim upon
which relief could be granted; and the United States
Attorney's brief before us does not help us, for it is
limited to the prognostication — unfortunately ill
founded so far as we are concerned — that "the most
cursory examination" of them will show the correctness
of the District Court's action.
We think that, however inartistically they may be
stated, the plaintiff has disclosed his claims that the
collector has converted or otherwise done away with
two of his cases of medicinal tonics and has sold the rest
in a manner incompatible with the public auction he had
announced — and, indeed, required by 19 U.S.C.A. §
1491, above cited, and the Treasury Regulations
promulgated under it, formerly 19 CFR 18.7-18.12, now
19 CFR 20.5, 8 Fed. Reg. 8407, 8408, June 19, 1943. As
to this latter claim, it may be that the collector's only
error is a failure to collect an additional ten dollars from
the Spring dale Distilling Company; but giving the
plaintiff the benefit of reasonable intendments in his
allegations (as we must on this motion), the claim
appears to be in effect that he was actually the first
bidder at the price for which they were sold, and hence
was entitled to the merchandise. Of course, defendant
did not need to move on the complaint alone; he could
have disclosed the facts from his point of view, in
advance of a trial if he chose, by asking for a pre-trial
hearing or by moving for a summary judgment with
supporting affidavits. But, as it stands, we do not see
how the plaintiff may properly be deprived of his day in
court to show what he obviously so firmly believes and
what for present purposes defendant must be taken as
admitting. It appears to be well settled that the collector
may be held personally for a default or for negligence in
the performance of his duties. Conklin v. Newton, 2
Cir., 34 F.2d 612, 614; Giles v. Newton, D.C.E.D.N.Y.,
21 F.2d 484, 488; De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U.S. 1, 177-
180, 21 S.Ct. 743, 45 L.Ed. 1041; cf. HammondKnowlton
v. United States, 2 Cir., 121 F.2d 192,
certiorari denied 314 U.S. 694, 62 S.Ct. 410, 86 L.Ed.
555.
On remand, the District Court may find substance in
other claims asserted by plaintiff, which include a failure
properly to catalogue the items (as the cited Regulations
provide), or to allow plaintiff to buy at a discount from
the catalogue price just before the auction sale (a claim
whose basis is not apparent), and a violation of an
agreement to deliver the merchandise to the plaintiff as
soon as he paid for it, by stopping the payments. In view
of plaintiff's limited ability to write and speak English, it
will be difficult for the District Court to arrive at justice
unless he consents to receive legal assistance in the
presentation of his case. The record indicates that he
refused further help from a lawyer suggested by the
court, and his brief (which was a recital of facts, rather
than an argument of law) shows distrust of a lawyer of
standing at this bar. It is the plaintiff's privilege to
decline all legal help, United States v. Mitchell, 2 Cir.,
137 F.2d 1006, 1010, 1011; but we fear that he will be
indeed ill advised to attempt to meet a motion for
summary judgment or other similar presentation of [139
F.2d 776] the merits without competent advice and
assistance.
Judgment is reversed and the action is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.