The eighth error assigned by the defendant is that "the
trial and appellate courts committed error in permitting
plaintiff to split her cause of action and to file a separate
action in the Cleveland Municipal Court for her
property damage and reduce same to judgment, and,
thereafter, to proceed, in the Cuyahoga County
Common Pleas Court, with a separate action for
personal injuries, both claims arising out of a single
accident."
Other facets of this question have been before the court
before.
In the case of Vasu v. Kohlers, Inc., 145 Ohio St. 321, 61
N.E.2d 707, 166 A. L. R., 855,[167 Ohio St. 225]
plaintiff operating an automobile came into collision
with defendant's truck, in which collision he suffered
personal injuries and also damage to his automobile. At
the time of collision, plaintiff had coverage of a $50
deductible collision policy on his automobile. The
insurance company paid the plaintiff a sum covering the
damage to his automobile, whereupon, in accordance
with a provision of the policy, the plaintiff assigned to
the insurer his claim for such damage.
In February 1942, the insurance company commenced
an action in the Common Pleas Court of Mahoning
County against Kohlers, Inc., the defendant in the
reported case, to recoup the money paid by it to cover
the damage to Vasu's automobile.
In August 1942, Vasu commenced an action in the same
court against Kohlers, Inc., to recover for personal
injuries which he suffered in the same collision.
In March 1943, in the insurance company's action, a
verdict was rendered in favor of the defendant, followed
by judgment.
Two months later an amended answer was filed in the
Vasu case, setting out as a bar to the action for recovery
of damages for the personal injuries suffered by plaintiff
the judgment rendered in favor of defendant in the
insurance company case. A motion to strike that defense
having been sustained, a second amended answer was
filed omitting allegations as to such judgment. A trial of
the action resulted in a verdict for plaintiff, upon which
judgment was entered.
On appeal to the Court of Appeals the defendant
claimed that the Court of Common Pleas erred in
sustaining plaintiff's motion to strike from the
defendant's answer the defense of res judicata claimed to
have arisen by reason of the judgment in favor of the
defendant in the action by the insurance company.
The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment of the
Court of Common Pleas and entered final judgment in
favor of defendant.
This court reversed the judgment of the Court of
Appeals, holding in the syllabus, in part, as follows:
"1. If the owner of a single cause of action arising out of
[167 Ohio St. 226] a single tortious act brings an action
against his tort-feasor, he may have but one recovery;
and, in case he fails to recover, he may not maintain a
subsequent action on the same cause of action, even
though he has failed to include his entire cause of action
or elements of damage in his original action.
"2. If an owner of a single cause of action has a recovery
thereon, the cause of action is merged in the judgment;
but if he fails to recover on his claimed cause of action
and judgment goes against him, such judgment is res
judicata and a bar to a second action on the same cause
of action.
"* * *
"4. Injuries to both person and property suffered by the
same person as a result of the same wrongful act are
infringements of different rights and give rise to distinct
causes of action, with the result that the recovery or
denial of recovery of compensation for damages to the
property is no bar to an action subsequently prosecuted
for the personal injury, unless by an adverse judgment in
the first action issues are determined against the plaintiff
which operate as an estoppel against him in the second
action.
"5. A right, question or fact in issue which was
necessarily determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction in a judgment which has become final,
cannot be disputed or litigated in a subsequent suit
between the same parties, although the subsequent suit
is based upon a different cause of action.
"6. Where an injury to person and to property through a
single wrongful act causes a prior contract of indemnity
and subrogation as to the injury to property, to come
into operation for the benefit of the person injured, the
indemnitor may prosecute a separate action against the
party causing such injury for reimbursement for
indemnity moneys paid under such contract.
"7. Parties in privy, in the sense that they are bound by a
judgment, are those who acquired an interest in the
subject matter after the beginning of the action or the
rendition of the judgment; and if their title or interest
attached before that fact, they are not bound unless
made parties.
"8. A grantor or assignor is not bound, as to third
persons, [167 Ohio St. 227] by any judgment which such
third persons may obtain against his grantee or assignee
adjudicating the title to or claim for the interest
transferred, unless he participated in the action in such
manner as to become, in effect, a party."
The foregoing syllabus is set forth at considerable length
for subsequent reference herein. The first two
paragraphs, although not pertinent there because of the
fourth paragraph, are not only applicable but persuasive
in our determination here. The sixth, seventh and
eighth paragraphs deal with the factual situation which
existed in the Vasu case, i. e., a prior contract of
indemnity and subrogation. Although, as discussed
infra, it was not actually necessary to the determination
of the issue in that case, attention centers on the fourth
paragraph.
The Vasu case was distinguished in the case of Markota
v. East Ohio Gas Co., 154 Ohio St. 546, 97 N.E.2d 13,
and explained in the case of Mansker v. Dealers
Transport Co., 160 Ohio St. 255, 116 N.E.2d 3. In the
Markota case, plaintiffs commenced an action for
damages alleged to have been caused by the defendant in
constructing and installing a pipeline over the plaintiffs'
premises. Plaintiffs and defendant had entered into a
right of way agreement giving the defendant the right to
lay, maintain and operate the pipeline, the defendant
agreeing to reimburse, indemnify and save plaintiffs
harmless from and against any loss, damage or expense
in connection therewith.
Plaintiffs' amended petition had seven causes of action,
each for damages resulting from injuries to plaintiffs'
property. Judgment was entered on the verdicts. The
trial court granted a new trial on two causes of action,
reducing the judgment by the amounts claimed in such
causes of action. The question presented to this court
was whether "the trial court erred in failing to grant a
new trial in toto." This court reversed the judgment of
the Court of Appeals which had affirmed the judgment
of the Court of Common Pleas.
The pertinent portion of the syllabus in that case,
decided by a unanimous court, is paragraph three:
"Although a right of action may arise at each time that
damage covered by a single indemnity agreement
occurs, a [167 Ohio St. 228] plaintiff may maintain only
one action to enforce any such rights existing at the time
such action is commenced. (Vasu v. Kohlers, Inc., 145
Ohio St. 321, distinguished.)"
The opinion in the Markota case states (page 551):
"However, paragraphs four and six of the syllabus in
Vasu v. Kohlers, Inc., 145 Ohio St. 321, 61 N.E.2d 707,
do tend to support the defendant's contention that the
separate causes of action, stated in the second amended
petition in the instant case, were actually separate causes
of action. It should be noted, however, that the plaintiff,
in the Vasu case, had not been a party to the action
brought by his indemnitor against the defendant; and, as
indicated by paragraph eight of the syllabus in the Vasu
case, the plaintiff was not, therefore, bound by the
judgment against his indemnitor who had sought to
recover from that defendant the portion of the plaintiff's
claim assigned to such indemnitor."
The facts in the Mansker case are the converse of those
in the instant case. In that case, Mansker commenced an
action for personal injuries sustained by him in a
collision of two motor vehicles and recovered a verdict
and judgment, prevailing over the claim that he was
estopped from prosecuting his action for the reason that
the controlling issue of negligence therein had been fully
litigated in a prior action between the same parties and
had been determined by verdict and judgment adverse
to him. Cf. paragraph five of the syllabus in the Vasu
case, supra.
Two separate actions involving the same collision had
previously been commenced against Mansker and his
employer, Summit Fast Freight, Inc., one by Dealers
Transport Company and the other by its driver, Dow,
Dealers' action being for property damage and Dow's for
personal injuries. In the action initiated by Dealers, in
addition to a cross-petition filed by Summit for damages
to its fire truck, a cross-petition was filed by Mansker to
recover for damage to his tractor, due to the collision.
The two previous cases were tried together by
agreement and resulted in verdicts in favor of Dealers
and Dow, respectively, which verdicts, after remittiturs
were ordered and accepted, were reduced to judgments,
and the judgments subsequently paid.
[167 Ohio St. 229] In the Mansker case (160 Ohio St.
255) the issue of res judicata was raised. This court
reversed the judgment of the Court of Appeals which
had affirmed the judgment of the Court of Common
Pleas, and entered judgment for Dealers.
As stated in the opinion, both lower courts relied on the
fourth paragraph of the syllabus of the Vasu case and
reached the conclusion that "such case is authority for
the proposition that where the same person sustains
injury to both his property and his person as a result of
the same incident and due to the claimed negligence of
another, an infringement of different rights occurs, so
that he has two causes of action—one for damage to his
property and the other for injury to his person; that,
hence, where he prosecutes those causes of action
separately, a verdict and judgment against him in one
case do not preclude him from litigating the other, and
his success in the other case is not prevented by an
adverse result in the first, and that in such a situation res
judicata or estoppel may not be invoked by his
opponent."
The syllabus states:
"1. In a second action between the same parties on a
claim, demand or cause of action different from that
involved in the first action, a final judgment in the first
action does not constitute a bar to the prosecution of the
second, but does operate as an estoppel with regard to
the relitigation of controlling points or questions
actually determined in the first action. (Paragraph four
of the syllabus of Vasu v. Kohlers, Inc., 145 Ohio St. 321,
explained.)
"2. The final adjudication of a material issue by a court
of competent jurisdiction binds the parties in any
subsequent proceeding between or among them,
irrespective of a difference in forms or causes of action."
Thus, the Markota and Mansker cases, distinguishing
and explaining the Vasu case, have not changed the rule
established in paragraph four of the syllabus of the latter
case, holding that injuries to both person and property
suffered by the same person as a result of the same
wrongful act are infringements of different rights and
give rise to distinct causes of action.
However, it is contended here that that rule is in conflict
with the great weight of authority in this country and
has [167 Ohio St. 230] caused vexatious litigation. The
following quotation from 1 American Jurisprudence,
494, Section 114, states this question well:
"It sometimes happens that a single wrongful or
negligent act causes damage in respect of both the
person and the property of the same individual, as, for
instance, where the owner of a vehicle is injured in a
collision which also damages the vehicle. In such a case,
the question arises as to whether there are two causes of
action or only one, and the authorities are in conflict
concerning it. The majority rule is that only one cause of
action arises, the reason of the rule being that as the
defendant's wrongful act is single, the cause of action
must be single, and that the different injuries occasioned
by it are merely items of damage proceeding from the
same wrong. * * *
"In other jurisdictions, the rule is that two causes of
action result from a negligent act which inflicts injury
on a person and his property at the same time. This
conclusion has been reached in different jurisdictions by
different lines of reasoning."
Upon examination of decisions of courts of last resort,
we find that the majority rule is followed in the
following cases in each of which the action was between
the person suffering injury and the person committing
the tort, and where insurers were not involved, as in the
case here.
Birmingham Southern Ry. Co. v. Lintner (1904), 141
Ala., 420, 38 So., 363, 109 Am. St. Rep., 40; Jenkins v.
Skelton (1920), 21 Ariz. 663, 192 P., 249; Gregory v.
Schnurstein (1956), 212 Ga. 497, 93 S.E.2d 680; Georgia
Ry. & Power Co. v. Endsley (1928), 167 Ga. 439, 145 S.
E., 851, 62 A. L. R., 256; Fiscus v. Kansas City Public
Service Co. (1941), 153 Kan. 493, 112 P.2d 83; Cassidy v.
Berkovitz (1916), 169 Ky. 785, 185 S. W., 129; Pillsbury
v. Kesslen Shoe Co. (1939), 136 Me., 235, 7 A.2d 898;
Doran v. Cohen (1888), 147 Mass. 342, 17 N. E., 647;
Dearden v. Hey (1939), 304 Mass. 659, 24 N.E.2d 644,
127 A. L. R., 1077; Tuttle v. Everhot Heater Co. (1933),
264 Mich. 60, 249 N. W., 467; King v. Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. (1900), 80 Minn. 83, 82 N.
W., 1113, 81 Am. St. Rep., 238, 50 L. R. A., 161;
Kimball v. Louisville & Nashville Rd. Co. (1909), 94
Miss. 396, 48 So., 230; Chamberlain v. Mo.-Ark. Coach
Lines, Inc. (1945), 354 Mo., 461, 189 S.W.2d 538, 161 A.
L. R., 204;[167 Ohio St. 231] Underwood v. Dooley
(1929), 197 N.C. 100, 147 S. E., 686, 64 A. L. R., 656;
Anderson v. Jacobson (1919), 42 N. D., 87, 172 N. W.,
64; Fields v. Philadelphia Rapid Transit Co. (1922), 273
Pa. 282, 117 A., 59; Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Arlt (N.
D., 1953), 61 N.W.2d 429; Holcombe v. Garland &
Denwiddie, Inc. (1931), 162 S.C. 379, 160 S. E., 881;
Mobile & Ohio Rd. Co. v. Matthews (1906), 115 Tenn.,
172, 91 S. W., 194; Smith v. Lenzi (1929), 74 Utah. 362,
279 P., 893; Moultroup, Admx., v. Gorham (1943), 113
Vt. 317, 34 A.2d 96; Sprague v. Adams (1926), 139 Wn.
510, 247 P., 960, 47 A. L. R., 529; Larzo v. Swift & Co.
(1946), 129 W.Va. 436, 40 S.E.2d 811.
The minority rule, that separate actions may be
maintained to recover for personal injuries and for
damages to property resulting from the same wrongful
act, is set forth in the following cases:
Thelin v. Stewart (1893), 100 Cal., 372, 34 P., 861; Lamb
v. Harbaugh (1895), 105 Cal., 680, 39 P., 56; Ochs v.
Public Service Ry. Co. (1911), 81 N. J. L., 661, 80 A.,
495, 36 L. R. A. (N. S.). 240, Ann. Cas. 1912D, 255;
Reilly v. Sicilian Asphalt Paving Co. (1902), 170 N.Y. 40,
62 N. E., 772, 88 Am. St. Rep., 636, 57 L. R. A., 176;
Watson v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. (1894), 8 Tex. Cir.
App., 144, 27 S. W., 924; Carter v. Hinkle (1949), 189
Va. 1, 52 S.E.2d 135.
As to the rule in New York, however, it is noted in the
opinion in the Vasu case (page 331) that "the court, in
deciding the Reilly case, took a position contra to an
earlier holding in the same state in the case of Howe v.
Peckham (N. Y. Supreme Court), 6 How. Pr., 229, 10
Barb., 656, a case frequently cited (see quotation from
Phillips' Pleading, infra) as supporting the single-causeof-action
rule."
The reasoning behind the majority rule seems to be well
stated in the case of Mobile & Ohio Rd. Co. v.
Matthews, supra, as follows:
"The negligent action of the plaintiff in error
constituted but one tort. The injuries to the person and
property of the defendant in error were the several
results and effects of one wrongful act. A single tort can
be the basis of but one action. It is not improper to
declare in different counts for damages to the person
and property when both result from the same tort, [167
Ohio St. 232] and it is the bettor practice to do so where
there is any difference in the measure of damages, and
all the damages sustained must be sued for in one suit.
This is necessary to prevent multiplicity of suits,
burdensome expense, and delays to plaintiffs, and
vexatious litigation against defendants. * * *
"Indeed, if the plaintiff fail to sue for the entire damage
done him by the tort, a second action for the damages
omitted will be precluded by the judgment in the first
suit brought and tried."
The minority rule would seem to stem from the English
case of Brunsden v. Humphrey (1884), 14 Q. B., 141.
The facts in that case are set forth in the opinion in the
Vasu case (page 329), concluding with the statement:
"The Master of the Rolls, in his opinion, stated that the
test is `whether the same sort of evidence would prove
the plaintiff's case in the two actions,' and that, in the
action relating to the cab, it would be necessary to give
evidence of the damage done to the plaintiff's vehicle. In
the present action it would be necessary to give evidence
of the bodily injury occasioned to the plaintiff, and of
the sufferings which he has undergone, and for this
purpose to call medical witnesses. This one test shows
that the causes of action as to the damage done to the
plaintiff's cab, and as to the injury occasioned to the
plaintiff's person, are distinct.'"
The fallacy of the reasoning in the English court is best
portrayed in the dissenting opinion of Lord Coleridge,
as follows:
"It appears to me that whether the negligence of the
servant, or the impact of the vehicle which the servant
drove, be the technical cause of action, equally the cause
is one and the same: that the injury done to the plaintiff
is injury done to him at one and the same moment by
one and the same act in respect of different rights, i. e.
his person and his goods, 1 do not in the least deny; but
it seems to me a subtlety not warranted by law to hold
that a man cannot bring two actions, if he is injured in
his arm and in his leg, but can bring two, if besides his
arm and leg being injured, his trousers which contain
his leg, and his coat-sleeve which contains his arm, have
been torn."
[167 Ohio St. 233] There appears to be no valid reason
in these days of code pleading to adhere to the old
English rule as to distinctions between injuries to the
person and damages to the person's property resulting
from a single tort. It would seem that the minority rule
is bottomed on the proposition that the right of bodily
security is fundamentally different from the right of
security of property and, also, that, in actions predicated
upon a negligent act, damages are a necessary element of
each independent cause of action and no recovery may
be had unless and until actual consequential damages are
shown.
Whether or not injuries to both person and property
resulting from the same wrongful act are to be treated as
injuries to separate rights or as separate items of
damage, paragraph three of the syllabus in the Markota
case gives us the answer that a plaintiff may maintain
only one action to enforce his rights existing at the time
such action is commenced.
The decision of the question actually in issue in the Vasu
case is found in paragraphs six, seven and eight of the
syllabus, as it is quite apparent from the facts there that
the first judgment, claimed to be res judicata in Vasu's
action against the defendant, was rendered against
Vasu's insurer in an action initiated by it after having
paid Vasu for the damages to his automobile. That case
is considered and discussed at length in 166 A. L. R.,
870.
Upon further examination of the cases from other
jurisdictions, it appears that in those instances where the
courts have held to the majority rule, a separation of
causes of action is almost universally recognized where
an insurer has acquired by an assignment or by
subrogation the right to recover for money it has
advanced to pay for property damage.
In some instances those jurisdictions recognize the right
of the insurer to become a party to the action and
recover in the single action that part of the damages to
which it has become subrogated. See Moultroup, Admx.,
v. Gorham, supra; Farmer v. Union Ins. Co. of Indiana
(1927), 146 Miss. 600, 111 So., 584; Sprague v. Adams,
supra.
In other states, and particularly in those having statutes
requiring actions to be brought by the real party in
interest, the courts have recognized the right of the
insurer to bring [167 Ohio St. 234] a separate action to
recover in its own name for that part of a single cause of
action to which it has become entitled by payment of
damages. The following cases are illustrative:
Travelers Indemnity Co. v. Moore (1947), 304 Ky. 456,
201 S.W.2d 7; Underwriters at Lloyds Ins. Co. v.
Vicksburg Traction Co. (1913), 106 Miss. 244, 63 So..
455; General Exchange Ins. Corp. v. Young (1948), 357
Mo., 1099, 212 S.W.2d 396; Underwood v. Dooley,
supra; Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Arlt, supra; Tobin,
Admr., v. Glerich (1931), 162 Tenn., 96, 34 S.W.2d
1058.
Section 2307.05, Revised Code, requires actions to be
prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, as
was done by Vasu's insurer.
The reason why the exception is recognized that, where
the plaintiff has recovered from an insurance company a
part of his damage, he is not estopped from prosecuting
his own action, is well stated in the North Carolina case
of Underwood v. Dooley, supra, as follows:
"It cannot be held as law in this state that the owner of
an automobile, who, as the result of the wrong or tort of
another, has sustained damages both to his automobile
and to his person, and whose automobile is insured
against the loss or damage which he has sustained
because of injuries to his automobile, is put to an
election whether or not he shall, in order to maintain an
action against the wrongdoer to recover damages for
injuries to his person, release the insurance company
from all liability to him under its policy. He does not
lose his right of action to recover for the injuries to his
person, by accepting from the insurance company the
amount for which it is liable to him * * *."
Coming again to the defendant's eighth assignment of
error, it is noted that the rule attributed to the Ohio
courts, as it is stated in 1 Ohio Jurisprudence (2d), 360,
is based primarily on the Vasu case, although prior
lower court decisions reaching a different conclusion are
cited and recognized therein with the statement that
"these cases are impliedly overruled."
Apparently, much of the vexatious litigation, with its
attendant confusion, which has resulted in recent years
from the filing of separate petitions by the same
plaintiff, one for personal [167 Ohio St. 235] injuries and
one for property damage although sustained
simultaneously, has grown from that one decision, this
case presenting a good example.
In the light of the foregoing, it is the view of this court
that the so-called majority rule conforms much more
properly to modern practice, and that the rule declared
in the fourth paragraph of the syllabus in the Vasu case,
on a point not actually at issue therein, should not be
followed.
We, therefore, conclude and hold that, where a person
suffers both personal injuries and property damage as a
result of the same wrongful act, only a single cause of
action arises, the different injuries occasioned thereby
being separate items of damage from such act. It follows
that paragraph four of the syllabus in the Vasu case must
be overruled.
It is not necessary in view of this conclusion to consider
the other errors assigned herein.
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
reversed, and final judgment is entered for defendant.
Judgment reversed and final judgment for defendant.