I am not unalterably
opposed to upsetting prior decisions of this court where
changing conditions and the lessons of experience
clearly indicate the desirability of such course, but,
where those considerations do not obtain, established
law should remain undisturbed in order to insure a
stability on which the lower courts and the legal
profession generally may rely with some degree of
confidence.
Much may be said in support of the position taken in the
majority opinion herein. However, there is a sharp
division in the cases as to whether injuries to both
person and property suffered by the same person as a
result of the same wrongful act give rise to distinct
causes of action or to a single cause of action. Less than
13 years ago that question was discussed at some length
in the opinion in the case of Vasu v. Kohlers, Inc., 145
Ohio St. 321, 61 N.E.2d 707, 166 A. L. R., 855, and the
rule in favor of distinct causes of action was carried into
the fourth paragraph of the syllabus and approved by a
unanimous court.
As is pointed out in the majority opinion, neither of the
later cases of Markota v. East Ohio Gas Co., 154 Ohio
St. 546. 97 N.E.2d 13, nor Mansker v. Dealers Transport
Co., 160 Ohio St. 255, 116 N.E.2d 3,[167 Ohio St. 237]
reversed the law as set out in paragraph four of the
syllabus of the Vasu case.
As to the conflict existing among the cases on the matter
under discussion, attention is directed to 1 American
Jurisprudence, 494, Section 114, and 1 Corpus Juris
Secundum, 1334, Actions, Section 104.
In the latter volume, at pages 1334 and 1335, the
following succinct and accurate statement appears:
"The question of whether a single tortious act which
causes injury to the person and property of plaintiff
gives rise to a single cause of action or to two separate
causes is one on which there is a sharp conflict of
authority * * *. In some jurisdictions an injury to person
and to property, although resulting from the same
tortious act, constitutes different causes of action. In
other jurisdictions the fact that the injuries sustained are
diversified in character does not cause two or more
causes of action to accrue from a single tort, and a single
tort which causes injury both to the person and property
of an individual gives rise to but one cause of action * *
*."
There is abundant and respectable authority for both of
the above viewpoints. Ohio has deliberately adopted one
of them, and I can find no impelling reason for changing
the rule at the present time.
In the recent case of Reid v. Holden, 242 N.C. 408, 88
S.E.2d 125, the Supreme Court of North Carolina held
that, although a cause of action for personal injury is
separate and distinct from a cause of action for tortious
damage to personal property, they may be united in the
same complaint if the plaintiff so elects. Of course, that
would also be true in Ohio.