Now before this court is Plaintiff's post-trial motion for
judgment as a matter of law pursuant to FED R. CIV. P.
50, or alternatively, a new trial pursuant to FED R. CIV.
P. 59. For the reasons discussed below, Plaintiff's motion
is denied.
I. Background
1. Procedural History
Plaintiff Gilda Tesser brought this civil rights action
against her former employers ("defendants") by
complaint filed November 17, 1997. The complaint
included various claims, including religious
discrimination under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq. ("Title VII") and the
New York City Human Rights Law, Administrative
Code §§ 8-101 et seq., and retaliation in her terms of
employment for having complained about the perceived
discrimination. After years of pre-trial discovery and
motion practice, the case went to trial before a jury on
July 9, 2001. The trial lasted over two weeks, ending on
July 25, 2001, when the jury entered a verdict for
defendants on all counts.1 The instant motion for a
judgment notwithstanding the verdict pursuant to FED
R. CIV. P. 50, or in the alternative, a new trial pursuant
to Rule 59 followed.
2. The Trial and Verdict
The facts of this case are quite extensive. Many of the
facts presented at trial were already developed during
pre-trial litigation and discussed in my Memorandum
and Order dated January 22, 2001 denying in part and
granting in part defendants' motion for summary
judgment. Familiarity with that decision is presumed.
The following is an abbreviated review of [190
F.Supp.2d 434] those facts as they are relevant to the
instant motion and as they were further developed at
trial.
At the time of the allegedly discriminatory actions,
Plaintiff was an Assistant Principal in Charge of P.S. 177
in Community School District 21. Defendant
Superintendent Weber appointed Plaintiff to this
position. At the time, he believed Plaintiff would
eventually be promoted to principal when the position
became available and intended to support her candidacy
for this position. (Tr. 524-25.)
In 1991, Plaintiff applied for the position of principal at
P.S. 177. "In effect at that time was an internal
Chancellor's C-30 Regulation requiring community
school boards to follow a three-step process in selecting
supervisory personnel. Level I involved the
establishment of a screening committee consisting of six
to ten parents, two teachers, the superintendent, and
community school board members. The committee
determined the selection criteria and interviewed at least
ten candidates. Only the parents and teachers were
allowed to vote for at least five of those candidates, who
were then recommended to the community
superintendent. Level II required the superintendent to
evaluate the recommended candidates and recommend
two to the community school board. Level III required
the community school board either to select one for
appointment or to request that the superintendent or
committee consider other candidates from the original
Level I pool." (Order of January 22, 2001 at 2-3; see also
Tr. 330-331.)
Plaintiff testified that prior to, and during her candidacy,
she learned that the parents of P.S. 177 were opposed to
her appointment because she was Jewish. (Tr. 259-60.)
Plaintiff informed Weber of the anti-Semitic animus she
believed was being expressed by the parents. Plaintiff
and Weber had several conversations regarding
Plaintiff's concerns. Weber testified that over the course
of these conversations he began to believe Plaintiff was
acting irrationally, that she would be unable to work
effectively with the school community, and that her
perception of anti-Semitism was unfounded. In
explaining why he thought Plaintiff was "unraveling" or
acting "irrationally," he testified that Ms. Tesser yelled at
him, that he thought she was accusing the parents of
anti-Semitism rather than admitting that they simply
did not like her, and that she stated she was "going to
get" the parents on the selection committee. (Tr. 554-55,
619-622, 709.)
Despite the alleged religious discrimination directed at
Plaintiff, the parents did not eliminate Plaintiff from
consideration and she successfully moved on to the
second level of consideration. Moreover, Plaintiff's own
witness, a member of the Level I selection committee,
testified that no parent indicated a desire to prevent Ms.
Tesser's selection because she was Jewish. Plaintiff's
witness did testify, however, that the parents thought
Ms. Tesser was being given preferential treatment by
Weber because she was Jewish. (Tr. 1275-77.) This
witness further testified that the parents indicated their
preference for another candidate, Mr. Ianniello. The
witness thought it was unfair that the parents were
attempting to hamper Ms. Tesser's progress to Level II
because they did not like Ms. Tesser personally and
because they preferred Mr. Ianniello for his popularity
rather than for his qualifications. (Tr. 1288-90.)
After passing Level I, Plaintiff hired an attorney because
of her concern about religious discrimination affecting
the progress of her candidacy. On January 16, 1992,
Plaintiff tape recorded a conversation she [190
F.Supp.2d 435] had with Weber and Plotnick2 in which
her decision to hire an attorney was discussed. (Ex. 399.)
Weber made it known to Tesser that he did not agree
with her decision to hire an attorney. (Id.) He was later
admonished for these statements in a letter from the
Chancellor. (Ex. 33.) On June 24, 1992, Weber
submitted his two choices for principal of P.S. 177 to the
school board. Plaintiff was not one of the two finalists.
(Ex. 113.) Therefore, after the completion of Level II,
Plaintiff was no longer under consideration for the
position of principal. Weber testified that although he
did not think it was necessary for Plaintiff to hire an
attorney, this was not the basis for his decision not to
recommend her to Level III. (Tr. 641.) He further
testified that he knew that one finalist, Kathleen Lavin,
was not Jewish; however he believed the other finalist,
Arlynn Brody, was Jewish. (Tr. 657-58.) In sum, Weber
testified that his decision not to recommend Plaintiff
was not based on her religion or in retaliation for hiring
an attorney, but was the result of his concern that she
could not handle the responsibilities of a principal at P.S.
177.
By letter dated June 30, 1992, Weber informed Plaintiff
that instead of remaining at P.S. 177 she had been
reassigned to P.S. 128, another school within District 21
in which she had worked prior to coming to P.S. 177.
(Tr. 664-65.) Her assignment was to begin in August
1992. On July 7, 1992, she filed a complaint with the
Board of Education of the City of New York ("BOE")
alleging discrimination based on her religion in the C-30
selection process. Thus, at the time Plaintiff was
beginning her work at P.S. 128, an investigation was
ongoing with respect to her complaint and the selection
of Lavin as principal at P.S. 177. (Tr. 703-04.) The
Office of Equal Opportunity concluded that the decision
not to select Plaintiff was not the result of religious
discrimination, and the selection of Lavin was finalized.
(Ex. 17; Tr. 704.)
During the 1992 school year at P.S. 128, various
employment-related actions were taken with respect to
Plaintiff, which she alleged were discriminatory. These
included a change in office space, change in duties, and a
refusal by Principal Miller to allow her to see and revise
the faculty notes for the upcoming school year. (Tr. 155-
158, 1005-1033.) Plaintiff also testified that within her
first few weeks back at P.S. 128, Miller told her that she
would not be allowed to remain there and threatened to
have her thrown out of the building if she did not leave.
(Tr. 159-60.) Plaintiff claimed to have suffered
tremendous emotional stress as a result of this incident,
and she was admitted to psychiatric care for treatment.
She filed a "line of duty" injury claim, alleging that Mr.
Miller's treatment had directly led to her need for
therapy and inability to work for some 25 days. (Tr.
164-68.)
Plaintiff subsequently filed a claim of religious
discrimination and retaliation with the New York
Human Rights Commission in June 1993 (Ex. 322),
requested a temporary transfer to another district in
August of 1993 (Ex. 350), and applied for, and was
granted whistle-blower status on September 21, 1993 by
the Special Commissioner of Investigation ("SCOI").
(Ex. 390.) Because the BOE had not granted Plaintiff her
requested transfer outside of District 21 (Tr. 719-20;
Exs. 350-52), on her own initiative she obtained
employment in the Plainview Old Bethpage Central
School District ("Plainview"). BOE granted her a one
year leave to take this position. (Tr. 186-87, 194-95.)
She also was granted a leave of absence for childcare
immediately following her one-year leave to work in
Plainview. (Tr. 196.) [190 F.Supp.2d 436] When it was
discovered that she had been working elsewhere while
on child-care leave, in violation of the leave policy, she
was ordered to return to work in District 21 or risk
being reported as an unauthorized absentee. (Tr. 199-
200, 948-51.) When Plaintiff did not return to District
21 for work, she was deemed resigned, a less severe
status than unauthorized absentee because it allowed her
the option of withdrawing her resignation. (Tr. 950-52.)
At trial, the above facts, as well as those going to
damages, were developed in greater detail through the
submission of numerous documents, letters, tape
recordings, expert opinion, witness testimony, and
records from the administrative investigations and
proceedings. Included among the testifying witnesses
were Plaintiff, Defendant Weber, and Defendant Miller.
As in many discrimination cases, ultimately the case
turned in significant degree on the respective credibility
of Plaintiff and defendants and their explanations for the
various events and employment actions. In this case, the
jury did not believe that Plaintiff's version was more
probable than not, and it returned a verdict in favor of
the defendants. The jury unanimously found that
Plaintiff did not prove that the BOE, Community School
District 21, Donald Weber, or Michael Miller
"discriminated against her based on her religion," (Tr.
1375), and it found that Plaintiff had not proven that the
BOE, Community School District 21, Donald Weber, or
Michael Miller "retaliated against her because of her
complaining of religious discrimination or because she
hired an attorney." (Tr. 1376.)
II. DISCUSSION
A. Rule 50 Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law
1. Legal Standard
In this Circuit, a party seeking to vacate a jury verdict
and enter judgment as a matter of law carries a "heavy
burden." See Burke v. Spartanics Ltd., 252 F.3d 131, 136
(2d Cir.2001); Ryduchowski v. Port Authority of New
York and New Jersey, 203 F.3d 135, 142 (2d Cir.2000)
(holding district court erred in setting aside jury verdict
and entering judgment as a matter of law). Judgment as
a matter of law is only appropriate when "(1) there is
such a complete absence of evidence supporting the
verdict that the jury's findings could only have been the
result of sheer surmise and conjecture, or (2) there is
such an overwhelming amount of evidence in favor of
the movant that reasonable and fair minded persons
could not arrive at a verdict against it." Burke 252 F.3d
at 136 (quoting Galdieri-Ambrosini v. Nat'l Realty &
Dev. Corp., 136 F.3d 276, 289 (2d Cir.1998)); see also
FED R. CIV. P. 50(a)(1). When considering a Rule 50
motion and deciding whether there was a sufficient
evidentiary basis to support the verdict, the court cannot
assess the weight of conflicting evidence or substitute its
judgment for that of the jury. Rather, it must make all
credibility determinations and draw all inferences in
favor of the nonmovant. See Sharkey v. Lasmo, 214 F.3d
371, 374 (2d Cir.2000); Smith v. Lightning Bolt
Productions, Inc., 861 F.2d 363, 367 (2d Cir.1988);
Mattivi v. South African Marine Corp., 618 F.2d 163,
167-68 (2d Cir.1980).
2. Analysis
a) Plaintiff Carries the Burden of Persuasion
First, Plaintiff argues for judgment as a matter of law on
the basis that there is overwhelming circumstantial
evidence to support her claim of religious
discrimination by her employers and defendants have
failed to supply evidence sufficient to [190 F.Supp.2d
437] support their asserted legitimate business reason
for not promoting Plaintiff. (Mem. of Law in Supp. of
Pl.'s Mot. Pursuant to Rules 50 and 59 ("Pl.'s Mem. of
Law") at 13-14.) In making this argument, Plaintiff
implies that by having established her prima facie case,
she presented the jury with a presumption of
discrimination that shifted the burden of disproving
such discrimination to defendants. To the extent
Plaintiff relies on this presumption, it mischaracterizes
the proper legal burden Plaintiff maintained at trial, and
is insufficient for granting judgment as a matter of law.
The Second Circuit has made clear that in employment
discrimination cases, as in other civil cases, the ultimate
burden of persuasion always remains with the plaintiff.
See Fisher v. Vassar College, 114 F.3d 1332, 1336-37 (2d
Cir.1997). The presumption created by the McDonnell
Douglas burden shifting analysis, so critical in surviving
summary judgment or dismissal at the close of plaintiff's
case3 , is not enough to guarantee a plaintiff will win her
case, "even if the elements of the prima facie case go
unchallenged." Id. at 1336. "[E]vidence sufficient to
satisfy the scaled-down requirements of the prima facie
case under McDonnell Douglas does not necessarily tell
much about whether discrimination played a role in the
employment decision. The fact that a plaintiff is judged
to have satisfied these minimal requirements is no
indication that, at the end of the case, plaintiff will have
enough evidence of discrimination to support a verdict
in his favor." Id. at 1337; see also Gordon v. New York
City Bd. of Educ., 232 F.3d 111, 116 (2d Cir.2000)
("Generally, it is the judge, not the jury, who must
decide whether a plaintiff has satisfied the requirements
of McDonnell Douglas's minimal version of a prima
facie case; when a [discrimination] case does go to the
jury, the jury's task is simply to determine the ultimate
question of whether the plaintiff met her burden of
proving that the defendant was motivated by prohibited
retaliation.") (internal quotations, alterations and
citations omitted).
In the instant case, the facts presented by Plaintiff were
sufficient to establish a prima facie case at the summary
judgment stage and to proceed to trial. Those same facts,
however, are not necessarily sufficient, as a matter of
law, to require a verdict in her favor. Thus, in
considering Plaintiff's motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict, this court does not reapply
the McDonnell Douglas analysis to Plaintiff's claims.
Rather, this court considers the sole determinative issue,
whether or not a reasonable jury could have concluded
that Plaintiff failed to prove by a preponderance of the
evidence that defendants' employment-related actions
[190 F.Supp.2d 438] were motivated by illegal
discrimination or retaliation.
b) Plaintiff's Claim of Religious Discrimination
In arguing that Plaintiff has proven as a matter of law
the defendants' discriminatory motive, Plaintiff
essentially reargues the facts presented at trial. Based on
these facts she asserts that "the evidence supports but
one conclusion: Weber capitulated to the discriminatory
will of the parents and declined to pass Ms. Tesser's
name on to Level III." (Pl.'s Mem. of Law at 15.) She
argues that Weber's proffered reasons for not passing
on Ms. Tesser's name are incredible, and therefore the
only rational conclusion is that he is trying to hide his
discriminatory motives. In particular, Plaintiff points to
the fact that Weber continued to employ and approve of
Ms. Tesser's work during the same period of time he
claims that she began acting irrationally and incapable of
taking on the position of principal. (Id. at 16-17.)
As a matter of law, Plaintiff's suggestion that a clear
showing of pretext establishes discrimination in this
case is wrong. While proof of pretext combined with
circumstantial evidence may be sufficient to prove
discriminatory intent, it does not require such a finding.
See Zimmermann v. Associates First Capital, 251 F.3d
376, 381-82 (2d Cir.2001) (holding combination of
prima facie case and evidence of pretext is neither
always sufficient nor always insufficient). In other
words, the jury might have disbelieved Weber's
proffered reason for his decision, yet still not believed
that Plaintiff had proven illegal discrimination was a
motivating factor. See Fisher, 114 F.3d at 1339-40
("That the employer's proffered reason is unpersuasive,
or even obviously contrived, does not necessarily
establish that the plaintiff's proffered reason of
[discrimination] is correct.") (quoting St. Mary's Honor
Ctr. v. Hicks, 509 U.S. 502, 524, 113 S.Ct. 2742, 125
L.Ed.2d 407 (1993)); Schnabel v. Abramson, 232 F.3d
83, 90 (2d Cir.2000).
As a factual matter, defendants presented sufficient
evidence upon which a jury could believe their proffered
reasons were true, or at least have concluded that
discrimination was not a motivating factor. In
explaining his reasoning in not recommending Plaintiff,
Weber testified that while he thought Ms. Tesser was
still capably performing her current duties, he did not
believe that she was demonstrating the skills, especially
in relating to the parents and community, necessary for
a principal. Based on this assessment, he decided not to
pass her name on to Level III. (Tr. 764-69.) The
evidence presented at trial is not wholly inconsistent
with this explanation.
On a motion for judgment as a matter of law, I cannot
disregard Weber's explanation by passing on his
credibility or weighing conflicting evidence. See United
States v. Landau, 155 F.3d 93, 103 (2d Cir.1998); Smith,
861 F.2d at 367. While evidence introduced by Plaintiff
could have led a reasonable jury to disbelieve Weber,
the evidence was not so "overwhelming[ly] ... in favor
of the movant that reasonable and fair minded persons
could not arrive at a verdict against [her]." Burke 252
F.3d at 136. Further, given the significant conflicting
evidence, I do not find that the jury's verdict was based
on "sheer surmise and conjecture." Id. Accordingly, I
find that a reasonable jury could conclude, as did the
jury in this case, that Plaintiff failed to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that defendants acted
with a discriminatory motive.
c) Plaintiff's Claim of Retaliation
Plaintiff also argues that she has proven retaliation by
defendants as a matter [190 F.Supp.2d 439] of law. With
respect to Defendant Miller, Plaintiff argues that this
court should find his testimony that he did not have
knowledge of her participation in a protected activity as
"incredible as a matter of law" and that this court should
"infer" that Miller had knowledge because the SCOI
determined that Miller had retaliated against Plaintiff.
(Pl.'s Mem. of Law at 20-21.)
With respect to Defendant BOE, Plaintiff argues that
because the SCOI determined that Miller retaliated
against Plaintiff, this finding is "conclusive" and when
the BOE accepted this determination it "admitted"
retaliation by Miller, for which it is liable. (Id. at 27.)
Similarly, she argues that the BOE already "admitted"
Weber's retaliatory conduct when it found that Weber
acted improperly in calling the Plainview school in
violation of BOE's order that Weber not call any of
Plaintiff's "prospective employers". (Id. at 28.)
State administrative findings, such as the SCOI
investigation, or the finding of probable cause by the
New York Human Rights Commission are not
preclusive on federal Title VII claims. See Univ. of
Tenn. v. Elliott, 478 U.S. 788, 796, 106 S.Ct. 3220, 92
L.Ed.2d 635 (1986); Raniola v. Bratton, 243 F.3d 610,
623-24 (2d Cir. 2001). Therefore, the jury was not
bound to find, as Plaintiff would have it, that the SCOI
findings or their adoption by the BOE establish
retaliatory conduct as a matter of law under the meaning
of Title VII. Moreover, the jury was properly instructed
on the various elements required for a finding of
retaliation, and how those differed as between
individual and corporate defendants. The jury was
instructed that "[t]o find a defendant liable for
retaliation, you must find, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the defendant, motivated by the plaintiff's
reasonable and good-faith opposition to discrimination
based on her religion, subjected her to an adverse
employment action." (Tr. 1357-58.); see also Raniola,
243 F.3d at 623. I further instructed the jurors that they
could find retaliation by the BOE, Community School
District 21 and Weber "even if Miller denies direct
knowledge of the plaintiff's claims of religious
discrimination" (Tr. 1356), and the jury received
instructions on the meaning of constructive discharge as
a form of adverse employment action. (Tr. 1359.)
While the SCOI finding was not binding on the jury, it
was persuasive evidence in favor of Plaintiff. This court,
however, must view the evidence in the light most
favorable to defendants and draw all reasonable
inferences in their favor. Considering the SCOI was
only one piece of evidence among many, I find that a
reasonable jury could conclude that the actions taken by
the defendants were not retaliatory.
First, Miller testified that when Plaintiff returned to P.S.
128 he did not know of her complaints to the
Chancellor and the BOE. (Tr. 884.) I will not secondguess
the jury's weighing of his testimony. Second, the
defendants presented evidence upon which a reasonable
jury could conclude that the various employmentrelated
actions were not "adverse," regardless of
defendants' knowledge of Plaintiff's complaints. For
instance, although Plaintiff's office at P.S. 128 upon her
return there in 1992 was not the same one she had
during her prior tenure, Miller testified that the change
had occurred after she left in 1990, when a new assistant
principal, Mr. Sealey, took over. (Tr. 1004-05.) Based on
this evidence, the jury could reasonably conclude that
the change in office space, which occurred two years
prior, was not an adverse employment action directed at
Plaintiff's complaints of religious discrimination.
Similarly, the jury could reasonably conclude [190
F.Supp.2d 440] that the fact that Plaintiff was
responsible for more bus and lunchroom duties was not
retaliatory since these were the same bus and lunchroom
duties that Mr. Sealey had performed as assistant
principal prior to Plaintiff's return to this position. (Tr.
1013-16.) Finally, accepting as true Defendant Miller's
account of the incident in which he told Plaintiff to
leave the building, he was ordering her to go to the
district office for a counseling session because of her
recent comments about getting back at the
superintendent, the school board and the parents. (Tr.
903.) A reasonable jury could find Miller's action
appropriate in the given context and conclude that he
did not retaliate for any complaints of discrimination by
Plaintiff.
While the examples discussed above do not account for
every point of fact which Plaintiff raises to support her
motion for judgment as a matter of law on the
retaliation claim, they amply demonstrate the sufficient
conflicting evidence as to the motivations of the
defendants. Thus, I find that a reasonable jury could
conclude that Plaintiff failed to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that the defendants
retaliated against Plaintiff because of her complaints of
discrimination.
B. Plaintiff's Rule 59 Motion for a New Trial
1. Legal Standard
A motion for a new trial, pursuant to FED R. CIV. P. 59,
may be granted when the district court is "convinced
that the jury has reached a seriously erroneous result or
that the verdict is a miscarriage of justice." Smith v.
Lightning Bolt Productions, Inc., 861 F.2d 363, 370 (2d
Cir. 1988). Unlike the standard for granting judgment as
a matter of law, the standard for a new trial permits the
trial judge to "weigh the evidence himself, and [he] need
not view it in the light most favorable to the verdict
winner." DLC Mgmt. Corp. v. Town of Hyde Park, 163
F.3d 124, 134 (2d Cir.1998). Despite this more lenient
standard, the Second Circuit has cautioned that a trial
court "should rarely disturb a jury's evaluation of a
witness's credibility." Id. (internal citations omitted).
Therefore, "[w]here the resolution of the issues
depend[s] on assessment of the credibility of the
witnesses, it is proper for the court to refrain from
setting aside the verdict and granting a new trial."
Metromedia Co. v. Fugazy, 983 F.2d 350, 363 (2d
Cir.1992); see also DLC Mgmt. Corp., 163 F.3d at 134;
Piesco v. Koch, 12 F.3d 332, 345 (2d Cir.1993).
2. Analysis
First, Plaintiff argues that the complete lack of
credibility of defendants Miller and Weber taken
together with the substantial evidence in her favor
warrant a new trial. In addition, she identifies four other
grounds for granting a new trial: the inadequacy of jury
deliberations, the limitations on Plaintiff's ability to
present her rebuttal case, the admission of irrelevant and
prejudicial evidence, and improper statements made by
defendants' counsel during summation. (Pl.'s Mem. of
Law at 31-32.) Even under the more lenient standard for
granting a new trial, this court finds that none of the
stated grounds are sufficient, individually or
cumulatively, for granting a new trial in this case.
a) Sufficiency of the Evidence
As already discussed with respect to the Rule 50 motion,
there is a significant amount of evidence that if believed
as true supports the jury's verdict for defendants. I do
not find that defendants Miller and Weber were so
lacking in credibility as witnesses that the jury could not
have properly believed all, or part, of their testimony.
Therefore, I decline to set aside a [190 F.Supp.2d 441]
jury verdict on the basis of witness credibility when the
resolution of determinative issues in this case largely
depended on the juror's assessment of those very
witnesses' testimony. See Metromedia Co., 983 F.2d at
363.
b) Adequacy of Jury Deliberations
Second, Plaintiff's claim that the jury deliberations were
inadequate is without merit. In Wilburn v. Eastman
Kodak Co., 180 F.3d 475 (2d Cir.1999), the Second
Circuit held that the trial judge did not err in denying
plaintiff's motion for a new trial where the jury had
deliberated for only twenty minutes. Id. The court held,
"[a] jury is not required to deliberate for any set length
of time. Brief deliberation, by itself, does not show that
the jury failed to give full, conscientious or impartial
consideration to the evidence." Id. In the instant case,
the jury was given comprehensive instructions on the
law and then deliberated for approximately two hours.
While there was a great deal of documentary evidence
to consider, the issues to be resolved in this case were
not more complex than the average Title VII
employment discrimination case. Moreover, there is no
reason to conclude that in considering this case the jury
"contemptuously or flippantly disregarded its duty." Id.
Accordingly, I find no basis for overturning the jury
verdict based on the length of its deliberations.
c) Trial Errors
Plaintiff's third through fifth asserted grounds for a new
trial all allege some type of evidentiary or trial error.
This court considers these grounds for a new trial in the
context of the harmless error standard of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure, which states:
No error in either the admission or the exclusion of evidence and
no error or defect in any ruling or order or in anything done or
omitted by the court or by any of the parties is ground for granting
a new trial ... unless refusal to take such action appears to the court
inconsistent with the substantial justice. The court at every stage of
the proceeding must disregard any error of defect in the proceeding
which does not affect the substantial rights of the parties.
FED.R.CIV.P. 61; see also Perry v. Ethan Allen, Inc., 115
F.3d 143, 150 (2d Cir.1997) (holding that the court "will
not conclude that a substantial right was affected unless
it is likely that in some material respect the factfinder's
judgment was `swayed by the error'").
i. Order of Witnesses
Plaintiff's third ground for a new trial is that she
suffered substantial prejudice when she took the stand
before defendants Weber and Miller, limiting her ability
to rebut their testimony. Weber and Miller were called
to the stand as Plaintiff's witnesses, but were not called
to the stand by Defense. Plaintiff intended to take the
stand as part of her case in chief, but only after first
placing Weber and Miller on the stand for direct.
Despite this court's order, Weber and Miller were not
available on the first day of trial, thus Plaintiff took the
stand first. Plaintiff argues that this so severely limited
her ability to rebut statements made by Weber and
Miller that it amounts to grounds for a new trial.
A trial court has discretion to "exercise reasonable
control over the mode and order of interrogating
witnesses and presenting evidence so as to (1) make the
interrogation and presentation effective for the
ascertainment of the truth, [and] (2) avoid needless
consumption of time...." FED.R.EVID. 611. Therefore,
it was within this court's discretion to move forward
[190 F.Supp.2d 442] once the jury had been selected,
rather than delaying the start of trial by a day or more so
that Plaintiff would not have to take the stand before
Weber and Miller. Moreover, Plaintiff was free to
request an opportunity to retake the stand after Weber
and Miller testified but before the close of her case-inchief.
She made no such request at trial. Accordingly, I
find that the order of presenting evidence and witnesses
was managed in accordance with Rule 611 and that
Plaintiff had adequate opportunity at the time of trial to
remedy any potential prejudice that she believed would
result from the order of witnesses.
ii. Improperly Admitted Evidence
Plaintiff's fourth ground for a new trial is based on the
admission of two exhibits, her unredacted tax returns
and a letter written by the interim Superintendent of the
Plainview school, which explained why Plainview was
denying Plaintiff tenure. Plaintiff argues that both of
these pieces of evidence were irrelevant and unduly
prejudicial and that their admission warrants a new trial.
As to the unredacted tax returns, Plaintiff principally
argues that the "Jury's access to the entire tax returns
only served to tap any latent prejudices the jurors might
direct to Ms. Tesser based upon her wealth." (Pl.'s Mem.
of Law at 36.) I previously considered the issue of
relevance and prejudice before deciding to admit the tax
returns in dispute. (Tr. 1467-69.) The decision as to
whether or not to admit these documents was reserved
until after Plaintiff elicited testimony from her expert,
Mr. McAteer, on the tax implications of a damages
award to Plaintiff. Mr. McAteer testified that he had
reviewed Plaintiff's W-2 forms, among other
documents, in preparing his report and he testified as to
how a lump sum award to Plaintiff would increase her
tax bracket and cause her to pay more in taxes than if
she had received that sum as pay over several years. (Tr.
1492-93.) Based on this testimony, it was decided to
admit the tax forms with the following limiting
instructions to the jury: "The amounts earned by
plaintiff's spouse and the family's other income and
assets as reflected on the joint tax returns may be
considered by you only to the extent that you believe
they bear on the testimony of Mr. McAteer to the
degree that he referred to the tax consequences in
calculating damages. These amounts have no other
bearing on this case, and I instruct you not to consider
them otherwise." (Tr. 1363.) In light of this limiting
instruction, and the rule that "juries are presumed to
follow their instructions," Zafiro v. United States, 506
U.S. 534, 540, 113 S.Ct. 933, 122 L.Ed.2d 317 (1993), I
conclude that any potential prejudice was sufficiently
cured and the admission of the tax returns did not create
substantial prejudice.
With respect to the admission of Defendants' Exhibit
NN-2, which was the letter by the interim
Superintendent of Plainview, Plaintiff withdrew her
objections to admission of this exhibit. (Tr. 431-439,
464-65.) Moreover, this letter was discussed in, and
attached to, Plaintiff's Expert Witness Report, which
was admitted by Plaintiff as Exhibit 309. (Tr. 1346, Ex.
309 at 7.) Given these facts, Plaintiff cannot claim any
prejudice based on its admission, let alone claim
substantial prejudice requiring a new trial.
iii. Defendants' Summation
Finally, Plaintiff argues that defense counsel made
statements in summation which "led the jury over the
line from permissible inference to impermissible
speculation." (Pl.'s Mem. of Law at 38.) Specifically,
Plaintiff argues that defendants caused her substantial
prejudice by [190 F.Supp.2d 443] suggesting, without
any factual support, that Plaintiff was withholding, or
had destroyed, various pieces of evidence or witness
testimony that would either fail to support her claim or,
alternatively, exonerate Defendants. (Id. at 39-46.) For
instance, Plaintiff objects to statements made in
reference to the tape recorded phone conversations,
such as "What did she cutout? She cut something out.
She is hiding something from you, snippants she is one
to give you little snippants, not the full picture, if you
saw the full picture you would realize there was not
merit to her claim at all." (Tr. at 1250.)
In a civil case such as this, speculation by defense
counsel, while not proper, does not threaten to
impermissibly shift the burden of proof as it would in a
criminal case in which the prosecution makes
unfounded speculative arguments about a defendant's
guilt. Here, defendants were free to argue that Plaintiff
had not met her burden and to question the sufficiency
of her evidence. While, there was no specific evidentiary
basis for suggesting that Plaintiff had "cutout" or
withheld other tape-recordings, taken in context the
defense was arguing that the recordings presented by
Plaintiff did not accurately represent the conversations
between her and defendants. Similarly taking in context
each of the statements to which Plaintiff points, I do not
believe that they were so prejudicial as to have
improperly swayed the jury. Moreover, I gave the jury
very specific instructions to preclude any impermissible
speculation. The jury was instructed that, "[r]easonable
inferences are conclusions prompted by reason and
common sense. Not all logically possible conclusions are
reasonable inferences. Whether a particular inference is
reasonable is exclusively for you to determine. In
deciding this case, you may consider only the exhibits
which have been admitted in evidence and the
testimony of the witnesses as you have heard it in this
courtroom." The jury was further cautioned, that "[t]he
questions, arguments, remarks and summations of the
attorneys are not evidence...." (Tr. 1346-48.)
I find that any potential prejudice resulting from
statements by defense counsel which may have verged
on speculation was adequately cured by the instructions
to the jury, and in any case, in light of all the other
evidence, such statements could not be considered so
substantially prejudicial as to "in some material respect"
have "swayed" the factfinder's judgment. Perry, 115 F.3d
at 150.
d) Plaintiff is Not Entitled to a New Trial
Having considered all the evidence presented at trial,
and for all the reasons discussed above, I do not believe
that the jury reached a "seriously erroneous result" in
deciding that Plaintiff had not carried her burden of
proof and I do not find that the verdict is a "miscarriage
of justice." Accordingly, Plaintiff's motion for a new trial
is denied.
III. Conclusion
For all the reasons discussed above it is hereby
ORDERED that Plaintiff's motion for judgment as a
matter of law or, in the alternative, for a new trial is
DENIED in its entirety.
SO ORDERED.