This is a motion to dismiss the complaint herein upon
the ground that it fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. The action is by a merchant,
who alleges he conducts two retail stores in the city of
Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and is brought against a publisher
of a Poughkeepsie daily newspaper. The complaint
alleges that the newspaper published by the defendant is
the only general daily newspaper in Poughkeepsie and is
known as the "Poughkeepsie New Yorker," and that, by
reason of its large circulation and high reputation, it is
"the dominant advertising medium in the entire area of
its publication." It is further alleged that the defendant
refuses, because of the persuasion and coercion of local
merchants in competition with plaintiff, to publish
advertising of the plaintiff in the defendant's newspaper
and that, as a result, the plaintiff's business has been
seriously reduced and such refusal has caused and will
continue to cause irreparable damage to plaintiff's
business. Further alleging that plaintiff has no adequate
remedy at law, injunctive relief is demanded, namely,
judgment directing the defendant to accept and publish
plaintiff's advertising on payment of the usual charges of
the defendant.
To dispose of the motion, the court must decide
whether a newspaper publisher may be required to
publish proper advertising matter upon the tender of
the usual charge therefor or whether such publisher is
free to contract and deal with whom he pleases. There
are no New York decisions in point. The holding of
courts in other States is summarized in a note in volume
87 of American Law Reports at page 979 as follows: —
"With the exception of one case, Uhlman v. Sherman
(1919) 22 Ohio N. P. N. S. 225, 31 Ohio Dec. N. P. 54 * *
*, it has been uniformly held in the few cases which have
considered the question that the business of publishing a
newspaper is a strictly private enterprise, as
distinguished from a business affected with a public
interest, and that its publisher is under no legal
obligation to sell advertising to all who may apply for
it."
The plaintiff contends that this court should reject the
majority view and adopt the reasoning laid down by the
Ohio decision [205 Misc. 984] of Uhlman v. Sherman
(supra). It was there held that the newspaper business
was clothed with a public interest and that a corporation
owning and publishing a newspaper was in the class of a
quasi-public corporation bound to treat all advertisers
fairly and without discrimination. It was further there
specifically held that a newspaper publisher, having
advertising space to sell, had no right to discriminate
against a local merchant, who, in his application for
advertising, complies with the law and all reasonable
rules of the publisher, and tenders the regular and
ordinary fee charged therefor by the paper. Courts in
other States have, however, expressly refused to follow
this Ohio decision. (See Shuck v. Carroll Daily Herald,
247 N. W. 813 [Iowa], 87 A. L. R. 975; Matter of Louis
Wohl, Inc., 50 F.2d 254, 256, and Friedenberg v. Times
Pub. Co., 170 La. 3.)
This court has also reached the conclusion that the
rationale of said Ohio decision is not to be followed in
this State in that it is contrary to general and
fundamental doctrine laid down in our decisional law.
For instance, we find decisions here, though not in
point, in which it has been generally held that the
publication and distribution of newspapers is a private
business and that newspaper publishers lawfully
conducting their business have the right to determine
the policy they will pursue therein and the persons with
whom they will deal. (Lepler v. Palmer, 150 Misc. 546;
Collins v. American News Co., 34 Misc. 260, 263, affd.
68 App. Div. 639.) And it is said to be "the well-settled
law of this State that the refusal to maintain trade
relations with any individual is an inherent right which
every person may exercise lawfully, for reasons he
deems sufficient or for no reasons whatever, and it is
immaterial whether such refusal is based upon reason or
is the result of mere caprice, prejudice or malice. It is a
part of the liberty of action which the Constitutions,
State and Federal, guarantee to the citizen." (Locker v.
American Tobacco Co., 121 App. Div. 443, 451-452,
affd. 195 N.Y. 565.) There are limitations to this
inherent right, but such limitations must be found either
in firmly established common-law principles or in
statutory regulations enacted pursuant to the police
power for the public good. It has been ably pointed out
that there was no rule at common law, similar to the
rules applicable to common carriers and inns, whereby a
newspaper was forbidden to discriminate between
customers. (See Shuck v. Carroll Daily Herald, supra.)
And there are no pertinent statutory regulations in this
State. It may be [205 Misc. 985] that the Legislature has
the right to reasonably regulate the newspaper
advertising business but the fact that it has not seen fit
to do so does not confer power upon the courts to
impose rules for the conduct of such business.
This court holds, therefore, that, in this State, the
newspaper business is in the nature of a private
enterprise and that, in the absence of valid statutory
regulation to the contrary, the publishers of a
newspaper have the general right either to publish or
reject a commercial advertisement tendered to them.
Their reasons for rejecting a proposed advertisement are
immaterial, assuming, of course, there are absent factual
allegations connecting them with a duly pleaded
fraudulent conspiracy or with furthering an unlawful
monopoly. There are no such allegations in this case.
The complaint is dismissed. Submit order on notice.