Mark Silvestri filed this products liability action against
General Motors Corporation, alleging that the airbag in
a 1995 Chevrolet Monte Carlo he was driving did not
deploy as warranted when he crashed into a utility pole
and that, as a result, his injuries from the accident were
enhanced. Because Silvestri failed, before the vehicle was
repaired, to give General Motors notice of his claim and
an opportunity to inspect the vehicle — which the
district court concluded was "the sole piece of evidence
in this case" — the court dismissed Silvestri's action,
finding dismissal to be the appropriate sanction for the
spoliation of evidence in this case. For the reasons that
follow, we affirm.
[271 F.3d 586] I
On November 5, 1994, Mark Silvestri was involved in a
single vehicle crash in Preble, New York. Driving his
landlady's Chevrolet automobile while intoxicated and
at an excessive rate of speed, Silvestri lost control of the
vehicle on a curve and slid off the road. The vehicle
crashed through a split-rail fence and, as it was spinning,
the front of the vehicle obliquely struck a utility pole.
The vehicle rotated around the pole and continued past
it, coming to rest in the front yard of a residence.
During the accident, the airbag in the Chevrolet did not
deploy. Although it appears that Silvestri was wearing
his seatbelt, he sustained severe facial lacerations and
bone fractures, permanently disfiguring his face. He
contends that, had the airbag deployed, he would not
have sustained these disfiguring injuries.
While Silvestri was in the hospital, his parents retained
attorney William G. Moench to protect Silvestri's legal
interests, both with respect to Silvestri's ticket for
driving while intoxicated and his potential civil action
against General Motors. When Moench later contacted
Silvestri, Silvestri requested that Moench continue to
represent him until his period of incapacitation ended
and he was able to meet with Moench in person. Later,
Silvestri discharged Moench, perhaps over a dispute
with Moench about the advancement of litigation costs,
which then had grown to $3000, and retained present
counsel.
While acting on behalf of Silvestri, Moench retained
two accident reconstructionists, Erik Carlsson and
Albert Godfrey, to inspect the damaged Chevrolet and
to visit the crash scene so that they could render expert
opinions regarding the circumstances of the crash.
Carlsson later testified that it was his understanding that
he was conducting his investigation "in anticipation of
filing a lawsuit against General Motors." Carlsson and
Godfrey inspected and photographed the vehicle and
inspected the site, and each prepared a report of his
findings. Because Carlsson considered it important that
General Motors have an opportunity to see the car,
Carlsson "suggested" to Attorney Moench, at the time
he conducted his inspection, that "the car has to be
kept"; and Carlsson stated, "General Motors needs to see
the car." He also told Moench after the inspection that
"he does indeed have a case [against General Motors]
because the airbag should have deployed."
At his inspection, which took place approximately a
week after the accident, Carlsson examined the vehicle
and took photographs. However, he took only one
measurement of the vehicle and conducted no
inspection of its undercarriage. While the one
measurement he took was a "crush" measurement, he
made no note of the measurement. At his deposition
several years later, he "seem[ed] to recall" that the
"crush" measurement was 18 inches, but he could not
definitely remember the measurement. Similarly,
Godfrey failed to make notes of any measurements that
he may have taken during his inspection. He did,
however, photograph a ruler on the hood of the vehicle
to measure the extent to which the front of the hood
was bent off centerline. When inspecting the site of the
accident, Godfrey failed to measure the skid marks left
by the vehicle, confessing that he formed his initial
opinion about Silvestri's speed at the time of the
accident by "eyeball[ing]" the skid marks.
After their inspections, both Carlsson and Godfrey
prepared written reports, dated December 6, 1994,
which they submitted to Moench. In his report,
Carlsson concluded that the vehicle had been subjected
to two impacts at the accident, a side impact and a
frontal collision. The report stated, "It is evident that the
damage [271 F.3d 587] was caused by the vehicle striking
a wooden fence. A piece of wood is stuck in the
passenger side door, and another piece in the rear tire."
"The frontal impact was evidently, as depicted in the
police report, with the utility pole.... The damage
indicates a collision with a narrow object, the initial
point of impact being slightly to the right of the vehicle's
center line." Carlsson explained further, "In spite of the
substantial front end damage that affected the rails of the
frame, the vehicle's airbag did not deploy at the accident.
Yet, the diagnostics of the airbag showed no defect or
malfunction." Carlsson concluded, "The failure by the
airbag to deploy in this accident must be considered a
defect that unnecessarily added to Mr. Silvestri's
injuries."
In Godfrey's written report, Godfrey stated his opinion
that the vehicle "struck the utility pole at an angle of
approximately 25 Degrees and rotated through the
window of 30 Degrees either side of the center line of
the vehicle whereby the dual airbags in the vehicle
should have inflated, however, failed to do so." He
concluded, "A major question arises as to why the air
bags did not inflate upon impact with the utility pole.
Had the air bags worked properly the operator would
not have struck his face on the steering wheel causing
the massive facial injuries that were incurred."
Notwithstanding the anticipation of litigation against
General Motors, neither Moench nor Silvestri took any
steps to preserve the vehicle or to notify General Motors
of the existence of the vehicle and Silvestri's potential
claim. Indeed, General Motors was not notified about
the accident until almost three years later when Silvestri
commenced this action against the corporation. Yet, the
vehicle remained in its damaged condition for more
than three months after the accident. In early 1995, the
title-owner of the vehicle, Carl E. Burhans, the husband
of Silvestri's landlady, transferred title of the vehicle to
his insurance company, and his insurance company in
turn sold the vehicle to Prestige Collision, Inc., which
repaired the vehicle and then sold it. General Motors
ultimately found the vehicle in June 1998 in Quebec,
Canada, in the possession of Real T. Durand. When, in
1998, General Motors inspected the airbag sensing and
diagnostic module, which monitors and retains in its
memory defects in the airbag system, it found that the
module had not been damaged in the accident. The
module revealed that there had been no defect in the
airbag system. Silvestri's expert, however, questioned
whether this was the original module that had been in
the vehicle at the time of the accident.
After General Motors was named the defendant in this
action, its reconstruction expert, Keith Schultz,
evaluated the evidence collected by Carlsson and
Godfrey, as well as the sensing and diagnostic module
from the repaired vehicle. Based on the available
evidence, Schultz concluded that the oblique impact of
the vehicle with the utility pole did not meet the airbag
deployment criteria set forth in General Motors'
warranty to provide head and face protection in a
frontal impact. He stated, "My investigation indicates
that the impact speed and direction and conditions of
the subject accident were not sufficient to cause the
deployment of the SIR [Supplemental Inflatable
Restraint] system and that the subject airbag properly
did not deploy." He added, "It is my opinion that the
injuries sustained by [Silvestri], due to the violent
impact of wood from a fence impacting the vehicle
compartment, could have been greater if the SIR had
deployed as claimed by [Silvestri]." Schultz explained
further that "the plaintiff was injured not by an impact
with a telephone pole but rather when the vehicle ran
[271 F.3d 588] through a wooden fence, violently
projecting portions of the fence into the passenger
compartment of the vehicle. The change in velocity, or
the `delta V', of the vehicle when it impacted the
telephone pole was not sufficient and not directionally
correct to deploy the airbags." Schultz added a serious
caveat to his opinions, however, indicating that
Silvestri's failure to preserve the vehicle in its condition
after the accident "hinders General Motors['] ability to
defend plaintiff's claim of a product defect." He
explained,
Although the information stored in the SDM [Sensing and
Diagnostic Module] indicates that the airbag system was operating
properly at the time of the accident, a detailed inspection of the
condition of the vehicle post-accident before any body repairs are
performed is critical to performing a crush analysis of the vehicle. A
crush analysis is performed by actually measuring the amount of
crush at numerous points on the vehicle. These crush
measurements are used to create a crush profile of the vehicle,
which, in turn, is used to determine the change in velocity, or "delta
V" of the vehicle in the accident. Such information is important to a
detailed reconstruction of the accident.
He concluded that the destruction of this evidence had
prejudiced General Motors' defense.
Following receipt of Schultz's report, both Carlsson and
Godfrey changed some of their conclusions about their
observations of the vehicle following the accident. For
example, although Carlsson initially stated that the
windshield on the vehicle had collapsed and fallen
completely inward, making no reference to seeing any
blood, he changed his report later to say that he saw
blood on the windshield. Carlsson also originally
concluded that Silvestri's face struck the windshield
rather than the steering wheel and that he had not seen
any deformation to the steering wheel nor any evidence
that the steering column had been "stroked"
(compressed) as a result of the accident. But in his later
opinions, he concluded that Silvestri's face struck the
steering wheel with a force sufficient to deform the
steering wheel and cause the steering column to be
stroked.
Godfrey likewise changed his opinions as well as his
"original" observations. In his deposition, taken before
Schultz's report became available, Godfrey stated that he
did not take any crush measurements of the car and
therefore did not calculate the equivalent barrier speed
of the vehicle as it struck the utility pole. After Schultz's
report, however, Godfrey gave a specific crush
measurement of "approximately" 24 inches and a
calculation of the equivalent barrier speed of 24 miles
per hour, based on "a rule of thumb" of one mile per
hour for each inch of crush. Not only had Godfrey
previously indicated that he never took a crush
measurement, Carlsson, who did take a crush
measurement but did not make a note of it, "seemed to
recall" that it was probably 18 inches. Under Godfrey's
"rule of thumb," this would result in an 18 miles-perhour
barrier speed. In addition, Godfrey originally
testified that he did not believe that anyone could
calculate the angle at which Silvestri hit the steering
wheel. But in a subsequent report, issued after Schultz's
report, he stated that the front of Silvestri's skull and
face hit the right side of the steering wheel.
Following discovery, General Motors filed a motion for
summary judgment on various grounds, including the
ground that Silvestri could not establish a prima facie
case for a product defect. General Motors also asked that
the case be dismissed based on Silvestri's spoliation of
evidence. The district court concluded that Silvestri had
not stated a prima facie case and [271 F.3d 589] therefore
did not address the spoliation issue. On appeal, we
concluded that under the law of New York, which the
parties agreed governed this case, Silvestri had stated a
prima facie case. In response to General Motors'
alternative request that we address the spoliation issue,
we declined and remanded the case to the district court,
stating that "the district court has broad discretion to
address the matter, and in this case, the district court did
not address spoliation in its ruling on General Motors'
motion for summary judgment." Silvestri v. General
Motors Corp., 210 F.3d 240, 245 (4th Cir.2000).
On remand, the district court addressed General Motors'
spoliation claim and dismissed the case on that basis.
The district court concluded that Silvestri had breached
his duty either to preserve the vehicle or to notify
General Motors about its availability and his claim. The
court concluded that Silvestri's failure to discharge this
duty caused General Motors to be "highly prejudiced."
After recognizing that the determination of whether the
airbag should have deployed could only be determined
by a reconstruction of the accident, the court explained
that General Motors was denied the opportunity to
reconstruct the accident accurately because of its
inability to take the necessary crush measurements. As
the court said:
Therefore, Defendant is now forced to rely on the few
measurements taken by Plaintiff's experts, Carlsson and Godfrey.
As to these measurements, Carlsson admitted, during his
deposition, that he only took one crush measurement — that of
what he believed to be the area of "maximum crush." ... Not only
was this lone measurement uncorroborated, but it was also
inadequate. Defendant's expert opines, and plaintiff does not
dispute, that crush measurements are generally taken at numerous
points on the vehicle.... Based on the inability to take crush
measurements alone, there is little doubt that defendant has been
highly prejudiced.
In addition, the court noted that General Motors was
prejudiced in its examination of the sensing and
diagnostic module which monitored the airbag
deployment system because Silvestri's expert challenged
the results of the examination. As the court explained:
In his second report, Carlsson cast doubt on whether or not the
airbag system inspected in 1998, which indicated no system faults,
was, in fact, the same system in the car at the time of the accident....
Defendant, at this late date, has no way of proving that the systems
are the same. This is critical to Defendant's case as their defense
rests, in large part, on the fact that, because the airbag system
showed no faults, the conditions of the accident must not have met
the threshold requirement to deploy the airbag.
The court added that not only was Silvestri put on
notice that the evidence should have been preserved or
General Motors notified, but he also "remained silent
until almost three years later when his suit was filed."
From the district court's order of dismissal, Silvestri
noticed this appeal.
II
On appeal, Silvestri contends that he is not responsible
for any spoliation of evidence because (1) he had no duty
to preserve the vehicle in question as he was not its
owner, and (2) any act of spoliation was that of attorney
Moench, hired by his parents, not him, and therefore
was not imputable to him. He also argues that the
sanction of dismissal was too harsh because General
Motors was not so severely [271 F.3d 590] prejudiced
that it could not adequately defend itself in the action.
In their briefs and at oral argument, the parties have
agreed that the law of New York — where the accident
occurred — supplies the applicable principles of
spoliation, and they have cited that law to the court. We
conclude, however, that a federal law of spoliation
applies because, as we note below, the power to sanction
for spoliation derives from the inherent power of the
court, not substantive law. Nevertheless, we have
recognized the articulation of spoliation principles from
some of the New York cases cited to us.
A
Spoliation refers to the destruction or material
alteration of evidence or to the failure to preserve
property for another's use as evidence in pending or
reasonably foreseeable litigation. West v. Goodyear Tire
& Rubber Co., 167 F.3d 776, 779 (2d Cir.1999) (citing
Black's Law Dictionary 1401 (6th ed.1990)). The right to
impose sanctions for spoliation arises from a court's
inherent power to control the judicial process and
litigation, but the power is limited to that necessary to
redress conduct "which abuses the judicial process."
Chambers v. NASCO, Inc., 501 U.S. 32, 45-46, 111 S.Ct.
2123, 115 L.Ed.2d 27 (1991) (recognizing the inherent
power of the courts to fashion appropriate sanctions for
conduct that disrupts the judicial process); see also
United States v. Shaffer Equip. Co., 11 F.3d 450, 462
(4th Cir.1993) (recognizing "that when a party deceives
a court or abuses the process at a level that is utterly
inconsistent with the orderly administration of justice
or undermines the integrity of the process, the court has
the inherent power to dismiss the action"); cf.
Fed.R.Civ.P. 37(b)(2) (authorizing sanctions for
violations of discovery orders).
The policy underlying this inherent power of the courts
is the need to preserve the integrity of the judicial
process in order to retain confidence that the process
works to uncover the truth. "[B]ecause no one has an
exclusive insight into truth, the process depends on the
adversarial presentation of evidence, precedent and
custom, and argument to reasoned conclusions — all
directed with unwavering effort to what, in good faith,
is believed to be true on matters material to the
disposition." Shaffer Equipment, 11 F.3d at 457. The
courts must protect the integrity of the judicial process
because, "[a]s soon as the process falters ... the people
are then justified in abandoning support for the system."
Id.
Thus, while the spoliation of evidence may give rise to
court imposed sanctions deriving from this inherent
power, the acts of spoliation do not themselves give rise
in civil cases to substantive claims or defenses.
While a district court has broad discretion in choosing
an appropriate sanction for spoliation, "the applicable
sanction should be molded to serve the prophylactic,
punitive, and remedial rationales underlying the
spoliation doctrine." West, 167 F.3d at 779. In addition,
a court must find some degree of fault to impose
sanctions. We have recognized that when imposing
spoliation sanctions, "the trial court has discretion to
pursue a wide range of responses both for the purpose
of leveling the evidentiary playing field and for the
purpose of sanctioning the improper conduct." Vodusek
v. Bayliner Marine Corp., 71 F.3d 148, 156 (4th
Cir.1995). But dismissal should be avoided if a lesser
sanction will perform the necessary function. West, 167
F.3d at 779.
We review the district court's exercise of its discretion
for abuse. Hartford [271 F.3d 591] Ins. Co. v. Am.
Automatic Sprinkler Sys., Inc., 201 F.3d 538, 543-44
(4th Cir.2000); West, 167 F.3d at 779.
B
Silvestri contends first that he had no duty to preserve
the vehicle because he was not its owner and because
neither he nor his agents were in any way engaged in
the destruction of the evidence. This argument assumes
too narrow an understanding of the duty at issue.
The duty to preserve material evidence arises not only
during litigation but also extends to that period before
the litigation when a party reasonably should know that
the evidence may be relevant to anticipated litigation.
Kronisch v. United States, 150 F.3d 112, 126 (2d
Cir.1998). If a party cannot fulfill this duty to preserve
because he does not own or control the evidence, he still
has an obligation to give the opposing party notice of
access to the evidence or of the possible destruction of
the evidence if the party anticipates litigation involving
that evidence. See Andersen v. Schwartz, 179 Misc.2d
1001, 687 N.Y.S.2d 232, 234-35 (N.Y.Sup.Ct.1999)
(holding that in a products liability action arising from a
vehicle collision where the vehicle was not owned by
the plaintiffs, the plaintiffs nonetheless had an
obligation to notify General Motors of the date and time
of the initial and only inspection of the vehicle because
the plaintiffs were aware that General Motors would be
brought in as a defendant).
In this case, it is true that Silvestri did not own the
vehicle, nor did he even control it in a legal sense after
the accident because the vehicle belonged to his
landlady's husband. But it is apparent that Silvestri had
access to the vehicle, as his attorney Moench and his
retained experts were given apparently unlimited access
to the vehicle for inspection purposes. Moreover, the
vehicle was preserved in its post-accident condition for
perhaps two to three months, or more, a period during
which Silvestri, his lawyer, and his experts recognized
not only that they would be suing General Motors but
also that General Motors should be given an
opportunity to inspect the vehicle. Within a couple of
weeks of the accident, Silvestri's counsel had a
conversation with his experts about the need to preserve
the vehicle and have General Motors inspect it. One of
Silvestri's expert witnesses, Erik Carlsson, testified that
it was his understanding that his inspection of the
vehicle was being conducted in anticipation of filing a
lawsuit against General Motors and that he advised
Moench that Silvestri had a valid case against General
Motors "because the airbag should have deployed." In
recognition of this, he stated to Moench, "therefore
General Motors needs to see the car."
Indeed, Silvestri himself, Silvestri's parents, Moench,
and the experts all recognized the need to act quickly to
preserve evidence. The reason why Moench was
retained and why he promptly retained reconstruction
experts was to collect evidence before it was lost. The
relevance of the evidence and the type of lawsuit to file
became clear when Silvestri's experts conducted their
inspection and concluded that the "failure by the airbag
to deploy in this accident must be considered a defect
that unnecessarily added to Mr. Silvestri's injuries."
Even after these experts completed their inspection and
their reports, the vehicle remained in its post-accident
condition, yet no notice of any claim was given to
General Motors nor was General Motors advised of any
opportunity to inspect the vehicle. Moreover, there is
no evidence to indicate that Silvestri attempted to buy
the damaged vehicle or to request that it be maintained
in its post-accident condition until General Motors
could inspect it. It is [271 F.3d 592] readily apparent,
therefore, that Silvestri, his attorneys, and his expert
witnesses anticipated filing suit against General Motors
and were fully aware that the vehicle was material
evidence in that litigation. Yet, they failed to take any
steps to ensure that Silvestri discharged his duty to
prevent the spoliation of evidence.
Silvestri now argues, frivolously we conclude, that
Moench was not his attorney and therefore that
Moench's failure to preserve the evidence should not be
imputed to Silvestri. The record belies any such
contention. It is undisputed that following Silvestri's
accident, he was incapacitated and his parents retained
Moench to look after Silvestri's legal interests.
Moreover, when Silvestri became aware of that fact, he
explicitly ratified his parents' retention of Moench by
instructing Moench to continue representing him until
he and Moench could get together to discuss the matter.
Apparently, when they finally did meet, some two
months after the accident, they found themselves in
disagreement about who would advance the quickly
increasing litigation costs, which at that point had
reached several thousand dollars. Silvestri discharged
Moench and retained new counsel, but he did not
disavow the existence of an attorney-client relationship
and the benefits of that relationship. In fact, Moench
also represented Silvestri in connection with the related
criminal matter involving Silvestri's driving while
intoxicated, and Silvestri continued to use the
investigative materials that Moench and the experts
developed. Moreover, when Moench later sued Silvestri
for attorneys fees and costs, Silvestri filed a counterclaim
alleging attorney malpractice, a claim that could arise
only out of an attorney-client relationship. As the
district court correctly pointed out, to allow Silvestri to
partake in the benefits provided by Moench — the
testimony and expert reports of Carlsson and Godfrey —
and at the same time disavow the acts of Moench in
failing to preserve the evidence or notify General
Motors would be "particularly unjust."
The district court concluded that even independent of
Moench's conduct, the spoliation of evidence was
imputable to Silvestri himself. First, Silvestri knew that
Moench had retained experts to examine the vehicle,
and he had authorized Moench to continue on his behalf
to collect data in support of a potential lawsuit. Second,
he knew the significance of preserving the automobile
because when Moench sued him, he counterclaimed for
malpractice, alleging that Moench had failed to preserve
the vehicle which was to be evidence in this lawsuit.
This all occurred long before General Motors was sued
or had knowledge of the suit, and yet Silvestri took no
steps to assure General Motors equal access to the
evidence or to give General Motors notice of his claim.
In sum, we agree with the district court that Silvestri
failed to preserve material evidence in anticipation of
litigation or to notify General Motors of the availability
of this evidence, thus breaching his duty not to spoliate
evidence.
C
Silvestri contends that dismissal was an unduly harsh
sanction for the spoliation that occurred in this case and
that the district court could have, instead, entered an
order that designated facts be taken as established for
purposes of the action or that presumptions be applied
in connection with the burden of proof. In this vein,
counsel for Silvestri made clear during oral argument
that Silvestri was disavowing his experts' demand for
proof that the sensing and diagnostic module that
General Motors inspected in 1998 was the same one in
the vehicle during the accident. Counsel stated during
argument [271 F.3d 593] that Silvestri accepted the fact
that the module that General Motors inspected in 1998
was the original one and that it revealed no system
defect. Although counsel was attempting to mitigate the
prejudice found by the district court by conceding this
fact on appeal, the district court did not have the benefit
of that concession. Even so, this issue was only one of
the factors relied upon by the district court to find
prejudice. Even without this factor, we still conclude
that General Motors was severely prejudiced by the
spoliation of evidence that occurred.
We agree with Silvestri that dismissal is severe and
constitutes the ultimate sanction for spoliation. It is
usually justified only in circumstances of bad faith or
other "like action." Cole v. Keller Indus., Inc., 132 F.3d
1044, 1047 (4th Cir.1998). But even when conduct is less
culpable, dismissal may be necessary if the prejudice to
the defendant is extraordinary, denying it the ability to
adequately defend its case. As the Supreme Court noted
in Chambers, the district court has discretion "to fashion
an appropriate sanction for conduct which abuses the
judicial process." 501 U.S. at 44-45, 111 S.Ct. 2123. And
it went on to point out that "outright dismissal of a
lawsuit, which we had upheld in Link [v. Wabash R.R.
Co., 370 U.S. 626, 630-31, 82 S.Ct. 1386, 8 L.Ed.2d 734
(1962)], is a particularly severe sanction, yet is within
the court's discretion." Id. at 45, 111 S.Ct. 2123.
As the New York courts have recognized, sometimes
even the inadvertent, albeit negligent, loss of evidence
will justify dismissal because of the resulting unfairness:
"The expansion of sanctions for the inadvertent loss of
evidence recognizes that such physical evidence often is
the most eloquent impartial `witness' to what really
occurred, and further recognizes the resulting unfairness
inherent in allowing a party to destroy evidence and
then to benefit from that conduct or omission."
Kirkland v. New York City Housing Auth., 236 A.D.2d
170, 173, 666 N.Y.S.2d 609 (N.Y.App.Div.1997). In
fashioning an appropriate sanction, the New York
courts have focused not only on the conduct of the
spoliator but also on the prejudice resulting from the
destruction of the evidence. See, e.g., Squitieri v. New
York, 248 A.D.2d 201, 669 N.Y.S.2d 589, 590-91
(N.Y.App.Div.1998) (finding dismissal appropriate
where a party negligently disposed of the street sweeper
at issue in the litigation, preventing the opposing party
from countering the design defect claim with evidence
of misuse, alteration, or poor maintenance of the
sweeper); Kirkland, 236 A.D.2d at 173-74, 666 N.Y.S.2d
609 (finding dismissal appropriate where a party
unintentionally failed to preserve the crucial piece of
evidence, a stove alleged to be defective, and, therefore,
no actual inspection of the item at issue could be
performed because "[i]ts loss `irrevocably stripped'[the
defendant] of useful defenses").
At bottom, to justify the harsh sanction of dismissal, the
district court must consider both the spoliator's conduct
and the prejudice caused and be able to conclude either
(1) that the spoliator's conduct was so egregious as to
amount to a forfeiture of his claim, or (2) that the effect
of the spoliator's conduct was so prejudicial that it
substantially denied the defendant the ability to defend
the claim.
In the case before us, the conduct of the spoliator may
have been either deliberate or negligent. We know that
Silvestri's attorney knew that the vehicle was the central
piece of evidence in his case against General Motors and
that he had been reminded that this piece of evidence
should be preserved or that General Motors should be
notified. As it turned out, [271 F.3d 594] the vehicle was
not preserved, and neither Silvestri nor his attorneys
notified General Motors of Silvestri's claim until almost
three years after the accident; by then, the evidence had
been destroyed by the repair of the vehicle. Whether
Silvestri's counsel believed he was securing advantage to
his client's case by deliberately remaining silent for three
years or whether he simply ignored his responsibilities
through carelessness is not revealed in the record. But
what is revealed is a level of culpability that was at least
negligent and may have been deliberate. Accordingly, it
is not clear whether Silvestri's conduct alone would
justify dismissal.
When we turn to the prejudice suffered by General
Motors, we agree with the district court's finding that
the spoliation was "highly prejudicial." It denied General
Motors access to the only evidence from which it could
develop its defenses adequately. First, by not having
access to the vehicle, General Motors could not develop
a "crush" model to prove that the airbag properly failed
to deploy. In order to establish this model, General
Motors needed crush measurements taken at several
places on the automobile. These measurements would
reveal not only the speed at impact, but also the
direction of forces imposed on the car. This information
would lead to an ability to determine whether the airbag
device acted as designed and therefore was critical to the
central issue in the case.
Silvestri's expert, Carlsson, testified that he took one
crush measurement, but he did not write it down. At his
deposition, however, he seemed to recollect the
measurement to be around 18 inches. Godfrey made no
such measurement. Yet, Godfrey later assumed a 24-
inch crush measurement to conclude that the impact
causing such a crush was a vehicle traveling at 24 miles
per hour. Silvestri argues that General Motors could
have used these same figures to determine its own crush
model. But, as Silvestri acknowledges and General
Motors has pointed out, General Motors needed more
than one crush measurement to develop a crush model,
and in this case the one crush measurement available
was unreliable.
In addition, because of the spoliation, General Motors
could not resolve the critical question of how Silvestri
injured his head. General Motors asserts that Silvestri's
injuries were actually caused by pieces of wood that
entered the vehicle from the side when the vehicle
struck the fence. It points out that if the accident was
caused by the fencing, then the airbag would not have
prevented Silvestri's injuries. Silvestri's experts,
however, have contended, inconsistently, that Silvestri
either hit the steering wheel or hit the windshield. In
support of their contention they rely on changed
recollections about the vehicle's condition. At one point,
they argued that the steering wheel had not been
deformed nor had its steering column been stroked. Yet,
at another point, they say that it had been deformed and
stroked. These inconsistencies could have been resolved
by a thorough examination of the vehicle cabin to look
for wood in the car, to determine the location of blood
and hair, and to take measurements of the steering
column.
Thus, not only was the evidence lost to General Motors,
but the evidence that was preserved was incomplete and
indefinite. To require General Motors to rely on the
evidence collected by Silvestri's experts in lieu of what it
could have collected would result in irreparable
prejudice. Short of dismissal, the district court would
have been left to formulate an order that created facts as
established or that created presumptions. But when
Silvestri presents vehicle data as his only evidence of a
[271 F.3d 595] product defect and that data is incomplete
and perhaps inaccurate, the court would have no basis
for determining what facts should be taken as
established. On the other hand, if the court denied
Silvestri's experts from testifying, as would be an
alternative, then Silvestri would have no case at all.
In short, we conclude that the district court's finding
that General Motors was "highly prejudiced" was not
clearly erroneous and that in the peculiar circumstances
of this case, the court's order dismissing this case,
although severe, was not an abuse of discretion.
Accordingly, the judgment of the district court is
AFFIRMED.