The question presented in this appeal is whether a
Georgia-based Internet Service Provider subjected itself
to personal jurisdiction in Maryland by enabling a
website owner to publish photographs on the Internet,
in violation of a Maryland corporation's copyrights.
Adapting the traditional due process principles used to
determine a State's authority to exercise personal
jurisdiction over out-of-state persons to the Internet
context, we hold that in the circumstances of this case, a
Maryland court cannot constitutionally exercise
jurisdiction over the Georgia Internet Service Provider.
Accordingly, we affirm the district court's order
dismissing the complaint against the Internet Service
Provider for lack of personal jurisdiction.
I
ALS Scan, Inc., a Maryland corporation with its place of
business in Columbia, Maryland, commenced this action
for copyright infringement against Digital Service
Consultants, Inc. ("Digital"), and Digital's customers,
Robert Wilkins and Alternative Products, Inc.
(collectively, "Alternative Products"). ALS Scan, which
creates and markets adult photographs of female models
for distribution over the Internet, claims that
Alternative Products appropriated copies of hundreds of
ALS Scan's copyrighted photographs and placed them
on its websites, www.abpefarc.net and
www.abpeuarc.com, thereby gaining revenue from
them through membership fees and advertising. ALS
Scan further alleges that Digital, as the Internet Service
Provider ("ISP") for Alternative Products, "enabled"
Alternative Products to publish ALS Scan's copyrighted
photographs on the Internet by providing Alternative
Products with the bandwidth service1 needed to
maintain its websites. ALS Scan thus alleges that all of
the defendants have infringed and are infringing its
copyrights within Maryland and elsewhere by selling,
publishing, and displaying its copyrighted photographs.
Digital filed a motion to dismiss the complaint against it
under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(2),
asserting that the district court lacked personal
jurisdiction over it. In support of its motion, Digital
provided affidavits demonstrating that Digital is a
Georgia corporation with its only place of business in
Atlanta. Digital asserts that it is an ISP which provided
bandwidth service to Alternative Products as a customer
but that it is not affiliated in any way with Alternative
Products except through an arms-length customer
relationship. In addition, Digital states that it did not
select the infringing photographs for publication; it did
not have knowledge that they were posted on
Alternative Products' website; and it received no income
from Alternative Products' subscribers. Digital
acknowledges that it does maintain its own website,
www.dscga.com, but asserts that its website "contains
no means for any person to enter into a contract with,
transfer funds to, or otherwise transact business with,
Digital."
Digital also states that, other than through the Internet,
it has no contacts with the State of Maryland. It avers
that it conducts no business and has no offices in
Maryland; that it has no contracts with any persons or
entities in Maryland; that [293 F.3d 710] it derives no
income from any clients or business in Maryland; that it
does not advertise in Maryland (other than through its
website); and that it owns no property in Maryland.
In a responding affidavit, ALS Scan asserts that copies of
its copyrighted photographs have appeared on
Alternative Products' two web-sites, www.abpefarc.net
and www.abpeuarc.com. It also alleges that one of its
employees in Maryland purchased an "on-line"
membership to www.abpefarc.net, using a credit card,
and, by obtaining that membership, the employee
received a "user name" and a "password" to access the
website. That website, it asserts, displayed ALS Scan's
copyrighted photographs, allegedly in violation of the
Copyright Act.
The district court granted Digital's motion to dismiss for
lack of personal jurisdiction. The court found that it had
neither specific nor general jurisdiction over Digital
because "Digital does not engage in any continuous and
systematic activities within Maryland, and there is no
evidence that [ALS Scan's] claim arises out of any
contacts which Digital may have with Maryland."
From the district court's ruling, ALS Scan filed this
interlocutory appeal.2
II
The district court's decision to dismiss the complaint
against Digital for lack of personal jurisdiction presents
a legal question that we review de novo, see Christian
Science Bd. of Dirs. of the First Church of Christ,
Scientist v. Nolan, 259 F.3d 209, 215 (4th Cir.2001),
although we review any underlying factual findings for
clear error, see In re Celotex Corp., 124 F.3d 619, 627
(4th Cir.1997).
Under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 4(k)(1)(A), a
federal court may exercise personal jurisdiction over a
defendant in the manner provided by state law. See
ESAB Group, Inc. v. Centricut, Inc., 126 F.3d 617, 622
(4th Cir.1997). Maryland courts have concluded that the
State's longarm statute, Md.Code Ann., Courts & Jud.
Proc. § 6-103, expands Maryland's exercise of personal
jurisdiction to the extent allowed by the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. See Androutsos
v. Fairfax Hosp., 323 Md. 634, 594 A.2d 574, 576 (1991).
"Because the limits of Maryland's statutory
authorization for the exercise of personal jurisdiction
are coterminous with the limits of the Due Process
Clause, the statutory inquiry necessarily merges with the
constitutional inquiry, and the two inquiries essentially
become one." Stover v. O'Connell Assocs., Inc., 84 F.3d
132, 135-36 (4th Cir.1996). Thus, we apply the
constitutional limitations on state service of process
incorporated in Rule 4(k)(1)(A), and our inquiry
coalesces into the question of whether Digital has
sufficient minimum contacts with Maryland. See
Diamond Healthcare of Ohio, Inc. v. Humility of Mary
Health Partners, 229 F.3d 448, 450 (4th Cir.2000); Ciena
Corp. v. Jarrard, 203 F.3d 312, 317 (4th Cir.2000).
Historically, the limits on personal jurisdiction were
grounded in a court's power over the actual person of
the defendant. Thus, a person's "presence within the
territorial jurisdiction of a court was prerequisite to its
rendition of a judgment personally [293 F.3d 711]
binding him." Int'l Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S.
310, 316, 66 S.Ct. 154, 90 L.Ed. 95 (1945) (citing
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714, 733, 24 L.Ed. 565 (1877)).
Over time, however, and with the introduction of
personal service of summons or other forms of notice,
the Supreme Court recognized that "due process
requires only that in order to subject a defendant to a
judgment in personam, if he be not present within the
territory of the forum, he have certain minimum
contacts with it such that the maintenance of the suit
does not offend `traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.'" Int'l Shoe, 326 U.S. at 316, 66 S.Ct.
154 (quoting Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U.S. 457, 463, 61
S.Ct. 339, 85 L.Ed. 278 (1940)). With respect to
corporations, the Court has recognized that "unlike an
individual, its `presence' without, as well as within, the
state of its origin can be manifested only by activities
carried on in its behalf by those who are authorized to
act for it." Id. Thus, "the terms `present' or `presence'
are used merely to symbolize those activities of the
corporation's agent within the state which courts will
deem to be sufficient to satisfy the demands of due
process." Id. at 316-17, 66 S.Ct. 154.
Although the courts have recognized that the standards
used to determine the proper exercise of personal
jurisdiction may evolve as technological progress occurs,
it nonetheless has remained clear that technology cannot
eviscerate the constitutional limits on a State's power to
exercise jurisdiction over a defendant. In Hanson v.
Denckla, 357 U.S. 235, 78 S.Ct.1228, 2 L.Ed.2d 1283
(1958), the Court explored the problem of reconciling
technological advances with the limits of personal
jurisdiction and stated:
As technological progress has increased the flow of commerce
between States, the need for jurisdiction over nonresidents has
undergone a similar increase. At the same time, progress in
communications and transportation has made the defense of a suit
in a foreign tribunal less burdensome. In response to these changes,
the requirements for personal jurisdiction over nonresidents have
evolved from the rigid rule of Pennoyer v. Neff to the flexible
standard of International Shoe Co. v. State of Washington. But it is
a mistake to assume that this trend heralds the eventual demise of
all restrictions on the personal jurisdiction of state courts. Those
restrictions are more than a guarantee of immunity from
inconvenient or distant litigation. They are a consequence of
territorial limitations on the power of the respective States.
However minimal the burden of defending in a foreign tribunal, a
defendant may not be called upon to do so unless he has had the
"minimal contacts" with that State that are a prerequisite to its
exercise of power over him.
Id. at 250-51, 78 S.Ct. 1228 (internal citations omitted);
see also McGee v. Int'l Life Ins. Co., 355 U.S. 220, 222,
78 S.Ct. 199, 2 L.Ed.2d 223 (1957) (noting that the trend
toward expanding the permissible scope of personal
jurisdiction is, in part, "attributable to the fundamental
transformation of our national economy over the
years"). The Court has thus mandated that limits on the
states' power to exercise personal jurisdiction over
nonresidents must be maintained, despite the growing
ease with which business is conducted across state lines.
Determining the extent of a State's judicial power over
persons outside of its borders under the International
Shoe standard can be undertaken through two different
approaches — by finding specific jurisdiction based on
conduct connected to the suit or by finding general
jurisdiction. See Helicopteros Nacionales de Colombia,
S.A. v. Hall, 466 U.S. 408, 414, 104 S.Ct. 1868, 80
L.Ed.2d 404 (1984);[293 F.3d 712] Christian Science Bd.,
259 F.3d at 216. If the defendant's contacts with the
State are also the basis for the suit, those contacts may
establish specific jurisdiction. In determining specific
jurisdiction, we consider (1) the extent to which the
defendant "purposefully avail[ed]" itself of the privilege
of conducting activities in the State; (2) whether the
plaintiffs' claims arise out of those activities directed at
the State; and (3) whether the exercise of personal
jurisdiction would be constitutionally "reasonable." See
Christian Science Bd., 259 F.3d at 216; see also
Helicopteros, 466 U.S. at 414 & n. 8, 104 S.Ct. 1868
(describing a basis for jurisdiction where "a controversy
is related to or `arises out of a defendant's contacts with
the forum").
On the other hand, if the defendant's contacts with the
State are not also the basis for suit, then jurisdiction
over the defendant must arise from the defendant's
general, more persistent, but unrelated contacts with the
State. To establish general jurisdiction over the
defendant, the defendant's activities in the State must
have been "continuous and systematic," a more
demanding standard than is necessary for establishing
specific jurisdiction. See Helicopteros, 466 U.S. at 414 &
n. 9, 104 S.Ct. 1868; ESAB Group, 126 F.3d at 623.
III
In this case, ALS Scan argues that Digital's activity in
enabling Alternative Products' publication of the
infringing photographs on the Internet, thereby causing
ALS Scan injury in Maryland, forms a proper basis for
the district court's specific jurisdiction over Digital. The
question thus becomes whether a person electronically
transmitting or enabling the transmission of
information via the Internet to Maryland, causing injury
there, subjects the person to the jurisdiction of a court in
Maryland, a question of first impression in the Fourth
Circuit.
Applying the traditional due process principles
governing a State's jurisdiction over persons outside of
the State based on Internet activity requires some
adaptation of those principles because the Internet is
omnipresent — when a person places information on
the Internet, he can communicate with persons in
virtually every jurisdiction. If we were to conclude as a
general principle that a person's act of placing
information on the Internet subjects that person to
personal jurisdiction in each State in which the
information is accessed, then the defense of personal
jurisdiction, in the sense that a State has geographically
limited judicial power, would no longer exist. The
person placing information on the Internet would be
subject to personal jurisdiction in every State.
But under current Supreme Court jurisprudence, despite
advances in technology, State judicial power over
persons appears to remain limited to persons within the
State's boundaries and to those persons outside of the
State who have minimum contacts with the State such
that the State's exercise of judicial power over the
person would not offend traditional notions of fair play
and substantial justice. See Hanson, 357 U.S. at 250-51,
78 S.Ct. 1228 (noting that "it is a mistake to assume that
[the technological] trend heralds the demise of all
restrictions"). But even under the limitations articulated
in International Shoe and retained by Hanson, the
argument could still be made that the Internet's
electronic signals are surrogates for the person and that
Internet users conceptually enter a State to the extent
that they send their electronic signals into the State,
establishing those minimum contacts sufficient to
subject the sending person to personal jurisdiction in the
State where the [293 F.3d 713] signals are received.
Under this argument, the electronic transmissions
"symbolize those activities ... within the state which
courts will deem to be sufficient to satisfy the demands
of due process." Int'l Shoe, 326 U.S. at 316-17, 66 S.Ct.
154. But if that broad interpretation of minimum
contacts were adopted, State jurisdiction over persons
would be universal, and notions of limited State
sovereignty and personal jurisdiction would be
eviscerated.
In view of the traditional relationship among the States
and their relationship to a national government with its
nationwide judicial authority, it would be difficult to
accept a structural arrangement in which each State has
unlimited judicial power over every citizen in each other
State who uses the Internet. That thought certainly
would have been considered outrageous in the past
when interconnections were made only by telephones.
See, e.g., Stover, 84 F.3d at 137 (finding a defendant's
"occasional telephonic requests for information from
Maryland-based investigation services" to be insufficient
to subject the defendant to personal jurisdiction in a
Maryland court). But now, even though the medium is
still often a telephone wire, the breadth and frequency of
electronic contacts through computers has resulted in
billions of interstate connections and millions of
interstate transactions entered into solely through the
vehicle of the Internet. The convergence of commerce
and technology thus tends to push the analysis to
include a "stream-of-commerce" concept, under which
each person who puts an article into commerce is held
to anticipate suit in any jurisdiction where the stream
takes the article. But the "stream-of-commerce" concept,
although considered, has never been adopted by the
Supreme Court as the controlling principle for defining
the reach of a State's judicial power. See generally Asahi
Metal Indus. Co. v. Superior Court of Cal., 480 U.S. 102,
107 S.Ct. 1026, 94 L.Ed.2d 92 (1987).
Until the due process concepts of personal jurisdiction
are reconceived and rearticulated by the Supreme Court
in light of advances in technology, we must develop,
under existing principles, the more limited
circumstances when it can be deemed that an out-ofstate
citizen, through electronic contacts, has
conceptually "entered" the State via the Internet for
jurisdictional purposes. Such principles are necessary to
recognize that a State does have limited judicial
authority over out-of-state persons who use the Internet
to contact persons within the State. Drawing on the
requirements for establishing specific jurisdiction, see
Helicopteros, 466 U.S. at 414 & n. 8, 104 S.Ct. 1868,
which requires purposeful conduct directed at the State
and that the plaintiff's claims arise from the purposeful
conduct, we adopt today the model developed in Zippo
Manufacturing Co. v. Zippo Dot Com, Inc., 952 F.Supp.
1119 (W.D.Pa. 1997).
In Zippo, the court concluded that "the likelihood that
personal jurisdiction can be constitutionally exercised is
directly proportionate to the nature and quality of
commercial activity that an entity conducts over the
Internet." 952 F.Supp. at 1124. Recognizing a "sliding
scale" for defining when electronic contacts with a State
are sufficient, the court elaborated:
At one end of the spectrum are situations where a defendant clearly
does business over the Internet. If the defendant enters into
contracts with residents of a foreign jurisdiction that involve the
knowing and repeated transmission of computer files over the
Internet, personal jurisdiction is proper. At the opposite end are
situations where a defendant has simply posted information on an
Internet [293 F.3d 714] Web site which is accessible to users in
foreign jurisdictions. A passive Web site that does little more than
make information available to those who are interested in it is not
grounds for the exercise [of] personal jurisdiction. The middle
ground is occupied by interactive Web sites where a user can
exchange information with the host computer. In these cases, the
exercise of jurisdiction is determined by examining the level of
interactivity and commercial nature of the exchange of information
that occurs on the Web site.
Id. (internal citations omitted); accord Soma Med. Int'l
v. Standard Chartered Bank, 196 F.3d 1292, 1297 (10th
Cir.1999) (citing the Zippo standard for "passive" Web
sites and thus finding a corporation's Web site an
insufficient basis for an exercise of personal
jurisdiction); Mink v. AAAA Dev. LLC, 190 F.3d 333,
336 (5th Cir.1999) (applying Zippo's sliding scale test to
the case before it); Cybersell, Inc. v. Cybersell, Inc., 130
F.3d 414, 418 (9th Cir.1997) (quoting Zippo for the
proposition that "[c]ourts that have addressed
interactive sites have looked to the `level of interactivity
and commercial nature of the exchange of information
that occurs on the Web site' to determine if sufficient
contacts exist to warrant the exercise of jurisdiction").
Thus, adopting and adapting the Zippo model, we
conclude that a State may, consistent with due process,
exercise judicial power over a person outside of the State
when that person (1) directs electronic activity into the
State, (2) with the manifested intent of engaging in
business or other interactions within the State, and (3)
that activity creates, in a person within the State, a
potential cause of action cognizable in the State's courts.
Under this standard, a person who simply places
information on the Internet does not subject himself to
jurisdiction in each State into which the electronic signal
is transmitted and received. Such passive Internet
activity does not generally include directing electronic
activity into the State with the manifested intent of
engaging business or other interactions in the State thus
creating in a person within the State a potential cause of
action cognizable in courts located in the State.
This standard for reconciling contacts through
electronic media with standard due process principles is
not dissimilar to that applied by the Supreme Court in
Calder v. Jones, 465 U.S. 783, 104 S.Ct. 1482, 79 L.Ed.2d
804 (1984). In Calder, the Court held that a California
court could constitutionally exercise personal
jurisdiction over a Florida citizen whose only material
contact with California was to write a libelous story in
Florida, directed at a California citizen, for a publication
circulated in California, knowing that the "injury would
be felt by [the Californian] in the State in which she
lives and works." Id. at 789-90, 104 S.Ct. 1482.
Analogously, under the standard we adopt and apply
today, specific jurisdiction in the Internet context may
be based only on an out-of-state person's Internet
activity directed at Maryland and causing injury that
gives rise to a potential claim cognizable in Maryland.
Applying this standard to the present case, we conclude
that Digital's activity was, at most, passive and therefore
does not subject it to the judicial power of a Maryland
court even though electronic signals from Digital's
facility were concededly received in Maryland. Digital
functioned from Georgia as an ISP, and in that role
provided bandwidth to Alternative Products, also
located in Georgia, to enable Alternative Products to
create a website and send information over the Internet.
It did not select or knowingly transmit infringing
photographs specifically to Maryland [293 F.3d 715] with
the intent of engaging in business or any other
transaction in Maryland. Rather, its role as an ISP was at
most passive. Surely, it cannot be said that Digital
"purposefully availed" itself of the privilege of
conducting business or other transactions in Maryland.
See ESAB Group, 126 F.3d at 623 (quoting Hanson, 357
U.S. at 253, 78 S.Ct. 1228).
Indeed, the only direct contact that Digital had with
Maryland was through the general publication of its
website on the Internet. But that website is unrelated to
ALS Scan's claim in this case because Digital's website
was not involved in the publication of any infringing
photographs. See Christian Science Bd., 259 F.3d at 216.
Thus, under the standard articulated in this case, Digital
did not direct its electronic activity specifically at any
target in Maryland; it did not manifest an intent to
engage in a business or some other interaction in
Maryland; and none of its conduct in enabling a website
created a cause of action in Maryland, although on this
last point, facts would have to be developed about
whether Digital continued to enable the website after
receiving notice. See ALS Scan, Inc. v. RemarQ
Communities, Inc., 239 F.3d 619, 620 (4th Cir.2001).
This factual issue, however, need not be resolved
because Digital's conduct does not satisfy the first two
prongs of the test.
Accordingly, we agree with the district court that
Digital's contacts in Maryland do not justify a Maryland
court's exercise of specific jurisdiction over Digital.
IV
It is not clear whether ALS Scan contends that, even if it
is unable to establish specific jurisdiction over Digital, a
Maryland court should nevertheless assert general
jurisdiction over Digital. At one point in its brief, ALS
Scan acknowledged that Digital's contacts with
Maryland are "perhaps not extensive enough" to justify a
finding of general jurisdiction. But, somewhat in tension
with this acknowledgment, ALS Scan continues to argue
that Digital's general contacts with Maryland through
the maintenance of its own website are sufficient to
justify the district court's exercise of general jurisdiction
over Digital.
It is true that even in the absence of specific jurisdiction,
general jurisdiction may exist when the defendant has
sufficient contacts with the forum State. See
Helicopteros, 466 U.S. at 414 & n. 9, 104 S.Ct. 1868.
General jurisdiction may be asserted over a defendant
"whose activities in the forum state have been
continuous and systematic.... But the threshold level of
minimum contacts sufficient to confer general
jurisdiction is significantly higher than for specific
jurisdiction." ESAB Group, 126 F.3d at 623 (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted).
We are not prepared at this time to recognize that a
State may obtain general jurisdiction over out-of-state
persons who regularly and systematically transmit
electronic signals into the State via the Internet based
solely on those transmissions. Something more would
have to be demonstrated. And we need not decide today
what that "something more" is because ALS Scan has
shown no more.
Other than maintain its website on the Internet, Digital
has engaged in no activity in Maryland, and its only
contacts with the State occur when persons in Maryland
access Digital's website. Even though electronic
transmissions from maintenance of a website on the
Internet may have resulted in numerous and repeated
electronic connections with persons in Maryland, such
transmissions do not add up to the quality of contacts
necessary for a State to have jurisdiction over the person
for all purposes. See GTE New Media Servs., Inc. v.
BellSouth Corp., 199 F.3d 1343, 1349 (D.C.Cir.2000)
(finding that "personal jurisdiction surely cannot be
based solely on [293 F.3d 716] the ability of District [of
Columbia] residents to access the defendants' websites,
for this does not by itself show any persistent course of
conduct by the defendants in the District"); Mink, 190
F.3d at 336 (finding AAAA's website to be "insufficient
to subject it to personal jurisdiction" because AAAA
merely posted information about its products, provided
users with a printable mail-in order form, and provided
contact information for the company, including an email
address).
V
For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the order of the
district court dismissing the complaint against Digital
for lack of personal jurisdiction.3
AFFIRMED.