The question for decision is whether the oft-challenged
doctrine of Swift v. Tyson1 shall now be disapproved.
Tompkins, a citizen of Pennsylvania, was injured on a
dark night by a passing freight train of the Erie Railroad
Company while walking along its right of way at
Hughestown in that State. He claimed that the accident
occurred through negligence in the operation, or
maintenance, of the train; that he was rightfully on the
premises as licensee because on a commonly used beaten
footpath which ran for a short distance alongside the
tracks; and that he was struck by something which
looked like a door projecting from one of the moving
cars. To enforce that claim he brought an action in the
federal court for southern New York, which had
jurisdiction because the company is a corporation of that
State. It denied liability; and the case was tried by a jury.
[304 U.S. 70] The Erie insisted that its duty to Tompkins
was no greater than that owed to a trespasser. It
contended, among other things, that its duty to
Tompkins, and hence its liability, should be determined
in accordance with the Pennsylvania law; that under the
law of Pennsylvania, as declared by its highest court,
persons who use pathways along the railroad right of
way — that is a longitudinal pathway as distinguished
from a crossing — are to be deemed trespassers; and that
the railroad is not liable for injuries to undiscovered
trespassers resulting from its negligence, unless it be
wanton or wilful. Tompkins denied that any such rule
had been established by the decisions of the
Pennsylvania courts; and contended that, since there
was no statute of the State on the subject, the railroad's
duty and liability is to be determined in federal courts as
a matter of general law.
The trial judge refused to rule that the applicable law
precluded recovery. The jury brought in a verdict of
$30,000; and the judgment entered thereon was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, which held, 90
F.2d 603, 604, that it was unnecessary to consider
whether the law of Pennsylvania was as contended,
because the question was one not of local, but of
general, law and that "upon questions of general law the
federal courts are free, in the absence of a local statute,
to exercise their independent judgment as to what the
law is; and it is well settled that the question of the
responsibility of a railroad for injuries caused by its
servants is one of general law. . . . Where the public has
made open and notorious use of a railroad right of way
for a long period of time and without objection, the
company owes to persons on such permissive pathway a
duty of care in the operation of its trains. . . . It is
likewise generally recognized law that a jury may find
that negligence exists toward a pedestrian using a
permissive path on the railroad right of way if he is hit
by some object projecting from the side of the train."
[304 U.S. 71] The Erie had contended that application of
the Pennsylvania rule was required, among other things,
by § 34 of the Federal Judiciary Act of September 24,
1789, c. 20, 28 U.S.C. § 725, which provides:
"The laws of the several States, except where the
Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States
otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules
of decision in trials at common law, in the courts of the
United States, in cases where they apply."
Because of the importance of the question whether the
federal court was free to disregard the alleged rule of the
Pennsylvania common law, we granted certiorari.
First. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, 18, held that federal
courts exercising jurisdiction on the ground of diversity
of citizenship need not, in matters of general
jurisprudence, apply the unwritten law of the State as
declared by its highest court; that they are free to
exercise an independent judgment as to what the
common law of the State is — or should be; and that, as
there stated by Mr. Justice Story:
"the true interpretation of the thirty-fourth section
limited its application to state laws strictly local, that is
to say, to the positive statutes of the state, and the
construction thereof adopted by the local tribunals, and
to rights and titles to things having a permanent locality,
such as the rights and titles to real estate, and other
matters immovable and intraterritorial in their nature
and character. It never has been supposed by us, that the
section did apply, or was intended to apply, to questions
of a more general nature, not at all dependent upon local
statutes or local usages of a fixed and permanent
operation, as, for example, to the construction of
ordinary contracts or other written instruments, and
especially to questions of general commercial law, where
the state tribunals are called upon to perform the like
functions as ourselves, that is, to ascertain upon general
reasoning and legal analogies, what is the true
exposition of the contract or [304 U.S. 72] instrument,
or what is the just rule furnished by the principles of
commercial law to govern the case."
The Court in applying the rule of § 34 to equity cases, in
Mason v. United States, 260 U.S. 545, 559, said: "The
statute, however, is merely declarative of the rule which
would exist in the absence of the statute."2 The federal
courts assumed, in the broad field of "general law," the
power to declare rules of decision which Congress was
confessedly without power to enact as statutes. Doubt
was repeatedly expressed as to the correctness of the
construction given § 34,3 and as to the soundness of the
rule which it introduced.4 But it was the more recent
research of a competent scholar, who examined the
original document, which established that the
construction given to it by the Court was erroneous;
and that the purpose of the section was merely to make
certain that, in all matters except those in which some
federal law is controlling, [304 U.S. 73] the federal
courts exercising jurisdiction in diversity of citizenship
cases would apply as their rules of decision the law of
the State, unwritten as well as written.5
Criticism of the doctrine became widespread after the
decision of Black & White Taxicab Co. v. Brown &
Yellow Taxicab Co., 276 U.S. 518.6 There, Brown and
Yellow, a Kentucky corporation owned by Kentuckians,
and the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, also a
Kentucky corporation, wished that the former should
have the exclusive privilege of soliciting passenger and
baggage transportation at the Bowling Green, Kentucky,
railroad station; and that the Black and White, a
competing Kentucky corporation, should be prevented
from interfering with that privilege. Knowing that such
a contract would be void under the common law of
Kentucky, it was arranged that the Brown and Yellow
reincorporate under the law of Tennessee, and that the
contract with the railroad should be executed there. The
suit was then brought by the Tennessee corporation in
the federal court for western Kentucky to enjoin
competition by the Black and White; an injunction
issued by the District Court [304 U.S. 74] was sustained
by the Court of Appeals; and this Court, citing many
decisions in which the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson had
been applied, affirmed the decree.
Second. Experience in applying the doctrine of Swift v.
Tyson, had revealed its defects, political and social; and
the benefits expected to flow from the rule did not
accrue. Persistence of state courts in their own opinions
on questions of common law prevented uniformity;7
and the impossibility of discovering a satisfactory line of
demarcation between the province of general law and
that of local law developed a new well of uncertainties.8
On the other hand, the mischievous results of the
doctrine had become apparent. Diversity of citizenship
jurisdiction was conferred in order to prevent
apprehended discrimination in state courts against those
not citizens of the State. Swift v. Tyson introduced
grave discrimination by non-citizens against citizens. It
made rights enjoyed under the unwritten "general law"
vary according to whether enforcement was sought in
the state [304 U.S. 75] or in the federal court; and the
privilege of selecting the court in which the right should
be determined was conferred upon the non-citizen.9
Thus, the doctrine rendered impossible equal protection
of the law. In attempting to promote uniformity of law
throughout the United States, the doctrine had
prevented uniformity in the administration of the law of
the State.
The discrimination resulting became in practice farreaching.
This resulted in part from the broad province
accorded to the so-called "general law" as to which
federal courts exercised an independent judgment.10 In
addition to questions of purely commercial law, "general
law" was held to include the obligations under contracts
entered into and to be performed within the State,11 the
extent to which a carrier operating within a State may
stipulate for exemption from liability for his own
negligence or that of his employee;12 the liability for
torts committed within the State upon persons resident
or property located there, even where the question of
liability [304 U.S. 76] depended upon the scope of a
property right conferred by the State;13 and the right to
exemplary or punitive damages.14 Furthermore, state
decisions construing local deeds,15 mineral
conveyances,16 and even devises of real estate17 were
disregarded.18
In part the discrimination resulted from the wide range
of persons held entitled to avail themselves of the federal
rule by resort to the diversity of citizenship jurisdiction.
Through this jurisdiction individual citizens willing to
remove from their own State and become citizens of
another might avail themselves of the federal rule.19
And, without even change of residence, a corporate
citizen of [304 U.S. 77] the State could avail itself of the
federal rule by re-incorporating under the laws of
another State, as was done in the Taxicab case.
The injustice and confusion incident to the doctrine of
Swift v. Tyson have been repeatedly urged as reasons for
abolishing or limiting diversity of citizenship
jurisdiction.20 Other legislative relief has been
proposed.21 If only a question of statutory construction
were involved, we should not be prepared to abandon a
doctrine so widely applied throughout nearly a
century.22 But the unconstitutionality [304 U.S. 78] of
the course pursued has now been made clear and
compels us to do so.
Third. Except in matters governed by the Federal
Constitution or by Acts of Congress, the law to be
applied in any case is the law of the State. And whether
the law of the State shall be declared by its Legislature in
a statute or by its highest court in a decision is not a
matter of federal concern. There is no federal general
common law. Congress has no power to declare
substantive rules of common law applicable in a State
whether they be local in their nature or "general," be
they commercial law or a part of the law of torts. And
no clause in the Constitution purports to confer such a
power upon the federal courts. As stated by Mr. Justice
Field when protesting in Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.
Baugh, 149 U.S. 368, 401, against ignoring the Ohio
common law of fellow servant liability:
"I am aware that what has been termed the general law
of the country — which is often little less than what the
judge advancing the doctrine thinks at the time should
be the general law on a particular subject — has been
often advanced in judicial opinions of this court to
control a conflicting law of a State. I admit that learned
judges have fallen into the habit of repeating this
doctrine as a convenient mode of brushing aside the law
of a State in conflict with their views. And I confess that,
moved and governed by the authority of the great names
of those judges, I have, myself, in many instances,
unhesitatingly and confidently, but I think now
erroneously, repeated the same doctrine. But,
notwithstanding the great names which may be cited in
favor of the doctrine, and notwithstanding the
frequency with which the doctrine has been reiterated,
there stands, as a perpetual protest against its repetition,
the Constitution of the United States, which recognizes
and preserves the autonomy and independence of the
States — independence in their legislative and
independence [304 U.S. 79] in their judicial
departments. Supervision over either the legislative or
the judicial action of the States is in no case permissible
except as to matters by the Constitution specifically
authorized or delegated to the United States. Any
interference with either, except as thus permitted, is an
invasion of the authority of the State and, to that extent,
a denial of its independence."
The fallacy underlying the rule declared in Swift v.
Tyson is made clear by Mr. Justice Holmes.23 The
doctrine rests upon the assumption that there is "a
transcendental body of law outside of any particular
State but obligatory within it unless and until changed
by statute," that federal courts have the power to use
their judgment as to what the rules of common law are;
and that in the federal courts "the parties are entitled to
an independent judgment on matters of general law":
"but law in the sense in which courts speak of it today
does not exist without some definite authority behind it.
The common law so far as it is enforced in a State,
whether called common law or not, is not the common
law generally but the law of that State existing by the
authority of that State without regard to what it may
have been in England or anywhere else. . . . "the
authority and only authority is the State, and if that be
so, the voice adopted by the State as its own [whether it
be of its Legislature or of its Supreme Court] should
utter the last word."
Thus the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson, is, as Mr. Justice
Holmes said, "an unconstitutional assumption of powers
by courts of the United States which no lapse of time or
respectable array of opinion should make us hesitate to
correct." In disapproving that doctrine we do not hold
[304 U.S. 80] unconstitutional § 34 of the Federal
Judiciary Act of 1789 or any other Act of Congress. We
merely declare that in applying the doctrine this Court
and the lower courts have invaded rights which in our
opinion are reserved by the Constitution to the several
States.
Fourth. The defendant contended that by the common
law of Pennsylvania as declared by its highest court in
Falchetti v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 307 Pa. 203; 160 A.
859, the only duty owed to the plaintiff was to refrain
from wilful or wanton injury. The plaintiff denied that
such is the Pennsylvania law.24 In support of their
respective contentions the parties discussed and cited
many decisions of the Supreme Court of the State. The
Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the question of
liability is one of general law; and on that ground
declined to decide the issue of state law. As we hold this
was error, the judgment is reversed and the case
remanded to it for further proceedings in conformity
with our opinion.
Reversed.