The case presented by the evidence is a simple one.
Plaintiff was severely injured in Pennsylvania. While
walking on defendant's right of way along a much-used
path at the end of the cross ties of its main track, he
came into collision with an open door swinging from
the side of a car in a train going in the opposite
direction. Having been warned by whistle and headlight,
he saw the locomotive [304 U.S. 81] approaching and
had time and space enough to step aside and so avoid
danger. To justify his failure to get out of the way, he
says that upon many other occasions he had safely
walked there while trains passed.
Invoking jurisdiction on the ground of diversity of
citizenship, plaintiff, a citizen and resident of
Pennsylvania, brought this suit to recover damages
against defendant, a New York corporation, in the
federal court for the southern district of that State. The
issues were whether negligence of defendant was a
proximate cause of his injuries and whether negligence
of plaintiff contributed. He claimed that, by hauling the
car with the open door, defendant violated a duty to
him. The defendant insisted that it violated no duty and
that plaintiff's injuries were caused by his own
negligence. The jury gave him a verdict on which the
trial court entered judgment; the circuit court of appeals
affirmed. 90 F.2d 603.
Defendant maintained, citing Falchetti v. Pennsylvania
R. Co., 307 Pa. 203; 160 A. 859, and Koontz v. B. & O.R.
Co., 309 Pa. 122; 163 A. 212, that the only duty owed
plaintiff was to refrain from willfully or wantonly
injuring him; it argued that the courts of Pennsylvania
had so ruled with respect to persons using a customary
longitudinal path, as distinguished from one crossing
the track. The plaintiff insisted that the Pennsylvania
decisions did not establish the rule for which the
defendant contended. Upon that issue the circuit court
of appeals said (p. 604): "We need not go into this
matter since the defendant concedes that the great
weight of authority in other states is to the contrary.
This concession is fatal to its contention, for upon
questions of general law the federal courts are free, in
absence of a local statute, to exercise their independent
judgment as to what the law is; and it is well settled that
the question of the responsibility of a railroad for
injuries caused by its servants is one of general law."
[304 U.S. 82] Upon that basis the court held the evidence
sufficient to sustain a finding that plaintiff's injuries
were caused by the negligence of defendant. It also held
the question of contributory negligence one for the jury.
Defendant's petition for writ of certiorari presented two
questions: Whether its duty toward plaintiff should
have been determined in accordance with the law as
found by the highest court of Pennsylvania, and whether
the evidence conclusively showed plaintiff guilty of
contributory negligence. Plaintiff contends that, as
always heretofore held by this Court, the issues of
negligence and contributory negligence are to be
determined by general law against which local decisions
may not be held conclusive; that defendant relies on a
solitary Pennsylvania case of doubtful applicability and
that, even if the decisions of the courts of that State
were deemed controlling, the same result would have to
be reached.
No constitutional question was suggested or argued
below or here. And as a general rule, this Court will not
consider any question not raised below and presented by
the petition. Olson v. United States, 292 U.S. 246, 262.
Johnson v. Manhattan Ry. Co., 289 U.S. 479, 494.
Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U.S. 90, 98. Here it does not
decide either of the questions presented but, changing
the rule of decision in force since the foundation of the
Government, remands the case to be adjudged according
to a standard never before deemed permissible.
The opinion just announced states that "the question for
decision is whether the oft-challenged doctrine of Swift
v. Tyson [1842, 16 Pet. 1] shall now be disapproved."
That case involved the construction of the Judiciary Act
of 1789, § 34: "The laws of the several states, except
where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the
United States otherwise require or provide, shall be
regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law in
the courts of [304 U.S. 83] the United States in cases
where they apply." Expressing the view of all the
members of the Court, Mr. Justice Story said (p. 18): "In
the ordinary use of language it will hardly be contended
that the decisions of Courts constitute laws. They are, at
most, only evidence of what the laws are, and not of
themselves laws. They are often re-examined, reversed,
and qualified by the Courts themselves, whenever they
are found to be either defective, or ill-founded, or
otherwise incorrect. The laws of a state are more usually
understood to mean the rules and enactments
promulgated by the legislative authority thereof, or long
established local customs having the force of laws. In all
the various cases, which have hitherto come before us
for decision, this Court have uniformly supposed, that
the true interpretation of the thirty-fourth section
limited its application to state laws strictly local, that is
to say, to the positive statutes of the state, and the
construction thereof adopted by the local tribunals, and
to rights and titles to things having a permanent locality,
such as the rights and titles to real estate, and other
matters immovable and intraterritorial in their nature
and character. It never has been supposed by us, that the
section did apply, or was designed to apply, to questions
of a more general nature, not at all dependent upon local
statutes or local usages of a fixed and permanent
operation, as, for example, to the construction of
ordinary contracts or other written instruments, and
especially to questions of general commercial law, where
the state tribunals are called upon to perform the like
functions as ourselves, that is, to ascertain upon general
reasoning and legal analogies, what is the true
exposition of the contract or instrument, or what is the
just rule furnished by the principles of commercial law
to govern the case. And we have not now the slightest
difficulty in holding, that this section, upon its true
intendment and construction, is strictly limited to local
statutes and local usages of the character [304 U.S. 84]
before stated, and does not extend to contracts and other
instruments of a commercial nature, the true
interpretation and effect whereof are to be sought, not
in the decisions of the local tribunals, but in the general
principles and doctrines of commercial jurisprudence.
Undoubtedly, the decisions of the local tribunals upon
such subjects are entitled to, and will receive, the most
deliberate attention and respect of this Court; but they
cannot furnish positive rules, or conclusive authority, by
which our own judgments are to be bound up and
governed." (Italics added.)
The doctrine of that case has been followed by this
Court in an unbroken line of decisions. So far as
appears, it was not questioned until more than 50 years
later, and then by a single judge.1 Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co. v. Baugh, 149 U.S. 368, 390. In that case, Mr. Justice
Brewer, speaking for the Court, truly said (p. 373):
"Whatever differences of opinion may have been
expressed, have not been on the question whether a
matter of general law should be settled by the
independent judgment of this court, rather than through
an adherence to the decisions of the state courts, but
upon the other question, whether a given matter is one
of local or of general law."
And since that decision, the division of opinion in this
Court has been one of the same character as it was
before. In 1910, Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for
himself and two other Justices, dissented from the
holding that a [304 U.S. 85] court of the United States
was bound to exercise its own independent judgment in
the construction of a conveyance made before the state
courts had rendered an authoritative decision as to its
meaning and effect. Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., 215
U.S. 349. But that dissent accepted (p. 371) as "settled"
the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson, and insisted (p. 372)
merely that the case under consideration was by nature
and necessity peculiarly local.
Thereafter, as before, the doctrine was constantly
applied.2 In Black & White Taxicab Co. v. Brown &
Yellow Taxicab Co., 276 U.S. 518, three judges
dissented. The writer of the dissent, Mr. Justice Holmes,
said, however (p. 535): "I should leave Swift v. Tyson
undisturbed, as I indicated in Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal
Co., but I would not allow it to spread the assumed
dominion into new fields."
No more unqualified application of the doctrine can be
found than in decisions of this Court speaking through
Mr. Justice Holmes. United Zinc Co. v. Britt, 258 U.S.
268. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Goodman, 275 U.S. 66,
70. Without in the slightest departing from that
doctrine, but implicitly applying it, the strictness of the
rule laid down in the Goodman case was somewhat
ameliorated by Pokora v. Wabash Ry. Co., 292 U.S. 98.
Whenever possible, consistently with standards
sustained by reason and authority constituting the
general law, this Court has followed applicable decisions
of state courts. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 293 U.S.
335, 339. See Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U.S. 20, 34. Black
& White Taxicab Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxicab Co.,
supra, 530. Unquestionably the issues of negligence and
contributory negligence upon which decision of this
case [304 U.S. 86] depends are questions of general law.
Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U.S. 213, 226. Lake Shore &
M.S. Ry. Co. v. Prentice, 147 U.S. 101. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co. v. Baugh, supra. Gardner v. Michigan
Central R. Co., 150 U.S. 349, 358. Central Vermont Ry.
Co. v. White, 238 U.S. 507, 512. Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co. v. Goodman, supra. Pokora v. Wabash Ry. Co.,
supra.
While amendments to § 34 have from time to time been
suggested, the section stands as originally enacted.
Evidently Congress has intended throughout the years
that the rule of decision as construed should continue to
govern federal courts in trials at common law. The
opinion just announced suggests that Mr. Warren's
research has established that from the beginning this
Court has erroneously construed § 34. But that author's
"New Light on the History of the Federal Judiciary Act
of 1789" does not purport to be authoritative and was
intended to be no more than suggestive. The weight to
be given to his discovery has never been discussed at this
bar. Nor does the opinion indicate the ground disclosed
by the research. In his dissenting opinion in the Taxicab
case, Mr. Justice Holmes referred to Mr. Warren's work
but failed to persuade the Court that "laws" as used in §
34 included varying and possibly ill-considered rulings
by the courts of a State on questions of common law.
See, e.g., Swift v. Tyson, supra, 16-17. It well may be
that, if the Court should now call for argument of
counsel on the basis of Mr. Warren's research, it would
adhere to the construction it has always put upon § 34.
Indeed, the opinion in this case so indicates. For it
declares: "If only a question of statutory construction
were involved, we should not be prepared to abandon a
doctrine so widely applied throughout a century. But the
unconstitutionality of the course pursued has now been
made clear and compels us to do so." This means that, so
far as concerns the rule of decision now condemned, the
Judiciary Act of 1789, passed to establish judicial [304
U.S. 87] courts to exert the judicial power of the United
States, and especially § 34 of that Act as construed, is
unconstitutional; that federal courts are now bound to
follow decisions of the courts of the State in which the
controversies arise; and that Congress is powerless
otherwise to ordain. It is hard to foresee the
consequences of the radical change so made. Our
opinion in the Taxicab case cites numerous decisions of
this Court which serve in part to indicate the field from
which it is now intended forever to bar the federal
courts. It extends to all matters of contracts and torts
not positively governed by state enactments. Counsel
searching for precedent and reasoning to disclose
common-law principles on which to guide clients and
conduct litigation are by this decision told that as to all
of these questions the decisions of this Court and other
federal courts are no longer anywhere authoritative.
This Court has often emphasized its reluctance to
consider constitutional questions, and that legislation
will not be held invalid as repugnant to the fundamental
law if the case may be decided upon any other ground.
In view of grave consequences liable to result from
erroneous exertion of its power to set aside legislation,
the Court should move cautiously, seek assistance of
counsel, act only after ample deliberation, show that the
question is before the Court, that its decision cannot be
avoided by construction of the statute assailed or
otherwise, indicate precisely the principle or provision
of the Constitution held to have been transgressed, and
fully disclose the reasons and authorities found to
warrant the conclusion of invalidity. These safeguards
against the improvident use of the great power to
invalidate legislation are so well-grounded and familiar
that statement of reasons or citation of authority to
support them is no longer necessary. But see e.g.:
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420,
553; Township of Pine Grove v. Talcott, 19 Wall. 666,
673; Chicago & G.T. Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U.S. 339,
345; [304 U.S. 88] Baker v. Grice, 169 U.S. 284, 292;
Martin v. District of Columbia, 205 U.S. 135, 140.
So far as appears, no litigant has ever challenged the
power of Congress to establish the rule as construed. It
has so long endured that its destruction now without
appropriate deliberation cannot be justified. There is
nothing in the opinion to suggest that consideration of
any constitutional question is necessary to a decision of
the case. By way of reasoning, it contains nothing that
requires the conclusion reached. Admittedly, there is no
authority to support that conclusion. Against the protest
of those joining in this opinion, the Court declines to
assign the case for reargument. It may not justly be
assumed that the labor and argument of counsel for the
parties would not disclose the right conclusion and aid
the Court in the statement of reasons to support it.
Indeed, it would have been appropriate to give Congress
opportunity to be heard before devesting it of power to
prescribe rules of decision to be followed in the courts of
the United States. See Myers v. United States, 272 U.S.
52, 176.
The course pursued by the Court in this case is
repugnant to the Act of Congress of August 24, 1937, 50
Stat. 751. It declares: "That whenever the
constitutionality of any Act of Congress affecting the
public interest is drawn in question in any court of the
United States in any suit or proceeding to which the
United States, or any agency thereof, or any officer or
employee thereof, as such officer or employee, is not a
party, the court having jurisdiction of the suit or
proceeding shall certify such fact to the Attorney
General. In any such case the court shall permit the
United States to intervene and become a party for
presentation of evidence (if evidence is otherwise
receivable in such suit or proceeding) and argument
upon the question of the constitutionality of such Act.
In any such suit or proceeding the United States shall,
subject to the applicable provisions of law, have all the
rights of a [304 U.S. 89] party and the liabilities of a
party as to court costs to the extent necessary for a
proper presentation of the facts and law relating to the
constitutionality of such Act." That provision extends to
this Court. § 5. If defendant had applied for and
obtained the writ of certiorari upon the claim that, as
now held, Congress has no power to prescribe the rule
of decision, § 34 as construed, it would have been the
duty of this Court to issue the prescribed certificate to
the Attorney General in order that the United States
might intervene and be heard on the constitutional
question. Within the purpose of the statute and its true
intent and meaning, the constitutionality of that
measure has been "drawn in question." Congress
intended to give the United States the right to be heard
in every case involving constitutionality of an Act
affecting the public interest. In view of the rule that, in
the absence of challenge of constitutionality, statutes
will not here be invalidated on that ground, the Act of
August 24, 1937 extends to cases where constitutionality
is first "drawn in question" by the Court. No
extraordinary or unusual action by the Court after
submission of the cause should be permitted to frustrate
the wholesome purpose of that Act. The duty it imposes
ought here to be willingly assumed. If it were doubtful
whether this case is within the scope of the Act, the
Court should give the United States opportunity to
intervene and, if so advised, to present argument on the
constitutional question, for undoubtedly it is one of
great public importance. That would be to construe the
Act according to its meaning.
The Court's opinion in its first sentence defines the
question to be whether the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson
shall now be disapproved; it recites (p. 72) that Congress
is without power to prescribe rules of decision that have
been followed by federal courts as a result of the
construction of § 34 in Swift v. Tyson and since; after
discussion, it declares (pp. 77-78) that "the
unconstitutionality of the course pursued [meaning the
rule of decision [304 U.S. 90] resulting from that
construction] compels" abandonment of the doctrine so
long applied; and then near the end of the last page the
Court states that it does not hold § 34 unconstitutional,
but merely that, in applying the doctrine of Swift v.
Tyson construing it, this Court and the lower courts
have invaded rights which are reserved by the
Constitution to the several States. But, plainly through
the form of words employed, the substance of the
decision appears; it strikes down as unconstitutional §
34 as construed by our decisions; it divests the Congress
of power to prescribe rules to be followed by federal
courts when deciding questions of general law. In that
broad field it compels this and the lower federal courts
to follow decisions of the courts of a particular State.
I am of opinion that the constitutional validity of the
rule need not be considered, because under the law, as
found by the courts of Pennsylvania and generally
throughout the country, it is plain that the evidence
required a finding that plaintiff was guilty of negligence
that contributed to cause his injuries and that the
judgment below should be reversed upon that ground.