I concur in the conclusion reached in this case, in the
disapproval of the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson, and in the
reasoning of the majority opinion except in so far as it
relies upon the unconstitutionality of the "course
pursued" by the federal courts.
The "doctrine of Swift v. Tyson," as I understand it, is
that the words "the laws," as used in ยง 34, line one, of
the Federal Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, do not
include in their meaning "the decisions of the local
tribunals." Mr. Justice Story, in deciding that point, said
(16 Pet. 19): [304 U.S. 91] "Undoubtedly, the decisions of
the local tribunals upon such subjects are entitled to, and
will receive, the most deliberate attention and respect of
this Court; but they cannot furnish positive rules, or
conclusive authority, by which our own judgments are
to be bound up and governed."
To decide the case now before us and to "disapprove"
the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson requires only that we say
that the words "the laws" include in their meaning the
decisions of the local tribunals. As the majority opinion
shows, by its reference to Mr. Warren's researches and
the first quotation from Mr. Justice Holmes, that this
Court is now of the view that "laws" includes
"decisions," it is unnecessary to go further and declare
that the "course pursued" was "unconstitutional,"
instead of merely erroneous.
The "unconstitutional" course referred to in the
majority opinion is apparently the ruling in Swift v.
Tyson that the supposed omission of Congress to
legislate as to the effect of decisions leaves federal courts
free to interpret general law for themselves. I am not at
all sure whether, in the absence of federal statutory
direction, federal courts would be compelled to follow
state decisions. There was sufficient doubt about the
matter in 1789 to induce the first Congress to legislate.
No former opinions of this Court have passed upon it.
Mr. Justice Holmes evidently saw nothing
"unconstitutional" which required the overruling of
Swift v. Tyson, for he said in the very opinion quoted by
the majority, "I should leave Swift v. Tyson undisturbed,
as I indicated in Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., but I would
not allow it to spread the assumed dominion into new
fields." Black & White Taxicab Co. v. Brown & Yellow
Taxicab Co., 276 U.S. 518, 535. If the opinion commits
this Court to the position that the Congress is without
power to declare what rules of substantive law shall
govern the federal courts, [304 U.S. 92] that conclusion
also seems questionable. The line between procedural
and substantive law is hazy but no one doubts federal
power over procedure. Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat.
1. The Judiciary Article and the "necessary and proper"
clause of Article One may fully authorize legislation,
such as this section of the Judiciary Act.
In this Court, stare decisis, in statutory construction, is a
useful rule, not an inexorable command. Burnet v.
Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U.S. 393, dissent, p. 406,
note 1. Compare Read v. Bishop of Lincoln, [1892] A.C.
644, 655; London Street Tramways Co. v. London
County Council, [1898] A.C. 375, 379. It seems
preferable to overturn an established construction of an
Act of Congress, rather than, in the circumstances of
this case, to interpret the Constitution. Cf. United States
v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U.S. 366.
There is no occasion to discuss further the range or
soundness of these few phrases of the opinion. It is
sufficient now to call attention to them and express my
own non-acquiescence.