The question is whether the Supreme Court of Illinois,
by its adjudication that petitioners in this case are bound
by a judgment rendered in an earlier litigation to which
they were not parties, has deprived them of the due
process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Respondents brought this suit in the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois, to enjoin the breach by
petitioners of an agreement restricting the use of land
within a described area of the City of Chicago, which
was alleged to have been entered into by some five
hundred of the landowners. The agreement stipulated
that for a specified period no part of the land should be
"sold, leased to or permitted to be occupied by any
person of the colored [311 U.S. 38] race," and provided
that it should not be effective unless signed by the
"owners of 95 per centum of the frontage" within the
described area. The bill of complaint set up that the
owners of 95 per cent of the frontage had signed; that
respondents are owners of land within the restricted
area who have either signed the agreement or acquired
their land from others who did sign; and that petitioners
Hansberry, who are Negroes, have, with the alleged aid
of the other petitioners and with knowledge of the
agreement, acquired and are occupying land in the
restricted area formerly belonging to an owner who had
signed the agreement.
To the defense that the agreement had never become
effective because owners of 95 per cent of the frontage
had not signed it, respondents pleaded that that issue
was res judicata by the decree in an earlier suit. Burke v.
Kleiman, 277 Ill.App. 519. To this petitioners pleaded,
by way of rejoinder, that they were not parties to that
suit or bound by its decree, and that denial of their right
to litigate, in the present suit, the issue of performance
of the condition precedent to the validity of the
agreement would be a denial of due process of law
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. It does not
appear, nor is it contended that any of petitioners is the
successor in interest to or in privity with any of the
parties in the earlier suit.
The circuit court, after a trial on the merits, found that
owners of only about 54 per cent of the frontage had
signed the agreement, and that the only support of the
judgment in the Burke case was a false and fraudulent
stipulation of the parties that owners of 95 per cent had
signed. But it ruled that the issue of performance of the
condition precedent to the validity of the agreement was
res judicata as alleged and entered a decree for
respondents. The Supreme Court of Illinois affirmed.
372 Ill. 369; 24 N.E.2d 37. We granted certiorari to
resolve the constitutional question. 309 U.S. 652.
[311 U.S. 39] The Supreme Court of Illinois, upon an
examination of the record in Burke v. Kleiman, supra,
found that that suit, in the Superior Court of Cook
County, was brought by a landowner in the restricted
area to enforce the agreement, which had been signed
by her predecessor in title, in behalf of herself and other
property owners in like situation, against four named
individuals, who had acquired or asserted an interest in
a plot of land formerly owned by another signer of the
agreement; that, upon stipulation of the parties in that
suit that the agreement had been signed by owners of 95
per cent of all the frontage, the court had adjudged that
the agreement was in force, that it was a covenant
running with the land and binding all the land within
the described area in the hands of the parties to the
agreement and those claiming under them, including
defendants, and had entered its decree restraining the
breach of the agreement by the defendants and those
claiming under them, and that the appellate court had
affirmed the decree. It found that the stipulation was
untrue but held, contrary to the trial court, that it was
not fraudulent or collusive. It also appears from the
record in Burke v. Kleiman that the case was tried on an
agreed statement of facts which raised only a single
issue, whether by reason of changes in the restricted
area, the agreement had ceased to be enforcible in
equity.
From this the Supreme Court of Illinois concluded in
the present case that Burke v. Kleiman was a "class" or
"representative" suit, and that in such a suit, "where the
remedy is pursued by a plaintiff who has the right to
represent the class to which he belongs, other members
of the class are bound by the result in the case unless it is
reversed or set aside on direct proceedings"; that
petitioners in the present suit were members of the class
represented by the plaintiffs in the earlier suit and
consequently were bound by its decree, which had
rendered [311 U.S. 40] the issue of performance of the
condition precedent to the restrictive agreement res
judicata, so far as petitioners are concerned. The court
thought that the circumstance that the stipulation in the
earlier suit that owners of 95 per cent of the frontage
had signed the agreement was contrary to the fact, as
found in the present suit, did not militate against this
conclusion, since the court in the earlier suit had
jurisdiction to determine the fact as between the parties
before it, and that its determination, because of the
representative character of the suit, even though
erroneous, was binding on petitioners until set aside by
a direct attack on the first judgment.
State courts are free to attach such descriptive labels to
litigations before them as they may choose and to
attribute to them such consequences as they think
appropriate under state constitutions and laws, subject
only to the requirements of the Constitution of the
United States. But when the judgment of a state court,
ascribing to the judgment of another court the binding
force and effect of res judicata, is challenged for want of
due process it becomes the duty of this Court to examine
the course of procedure in both litigations to ascertain
whether the litigant whose rights have thus been
adjudicated has been afforded such notice and
opportunity to be heard as are requisite to the due
process which the Constitution prescribes. Western Life
Indemnity Co. v. Rupp, 235 U.S. 261, 273.
It is a principle of general application in AngloAmerican
jurisprudence that one is not bound by a
judgment in personam in a litigation in which he is not
designated as a party or to which he has not been made a
party by service of process. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S.
714; 1 Freeman on Judgments (5th ed.), ยง 407. A
judgment rendered in such circumstances is not entitled
to the full faith and credit which the Constitution and
statute of the United States, R.S. ยง 905, 28 U.S.C. ยง 687,
prescribe, [311 U.S. 41] Pennoyer v. Neff, supra; Lafayette
Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404; Hall v. Lanning, 91
U.S. 160; Baker v. Baker, Eccles & Co., 242 U.S. 394; and
judicial action enforcing it against the person or
property of the absent party is not that due process
which the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments require.
Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Newport, 247 U.S. 464;
Old Wayne Mutual Life Assn. v. McDonough, 204 U.S.
8.
To these general rules there is a recognized exception
that, to an extent not precisely defined by judicial
opinion, the judgment in a "class" or "representative"
suit, to which some members of the class are parties,
may bind members of the class or those represented
who were not made parties to it. Smith v. Swormstedt,
16 How. 288; Royal Arcanum v. Green, 237 U.S. 531;
Hartford Life Ins. Co. v. Ibs, 237 U.S. 662; Hartford Life
Ins. Co. v. Barber, 245 U.S. 146; Supreme Tribe of BenHur
v. Cauble, 255 U.S. 356; Cf. Christopher v.
Brusselback, 302 U.S. 500.
The class suit was an invention of equity to enable it to
proceed to a decree in suits where the number of those
interested in the subject of the litigation is so great that
their joinder as parties in conformity to the usual rules
of procedure is impracticable. Courts are not
infrequently called upon to proceed with causes in
which the number of those interested in the litigation is
so great as to make difficult or impossible the joinder of
all because some are not within the jurisdiction or
because their whereabouts is unknown or where if all
were made parties to the suit its continued abatement by
the death of some would prevent or unduly delay a
decree. In such cases where the interests of those not
joined are of the same class as the interests of those who
are, and where it is considered that the latter fairly
represent the former in the prosecution of the litigation
of the issues in which all have a common interest, the
court will [311 U.S. 42] proceed to a decree. Brown v.
Vermuden, Ch. Cas. 272; City of London v. Richmond,
2 Vern. 421; Cockburn v. Thompson, 16 Ves. Jr. 321;
West v. Randall, Fed. Cas. No. 17,424; 2 Mason 181;
Beatty v. Kurtz, 2 Pet. 566; Smith v. Swormstedt, supra;
Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur v. Cauble, supra; Story,
Equity Pleading (2d ed.) ยง 98.
It is evident that the considerations which may induce a
court thus to proceed, despite a technical defect of
parties, may differ from those which must be taken into
account in determining whether the absent parties are
bound by the decree or, if it is adjudged that they are, in
ascertaining whether such an adjudication satisfies the
requirements of due process and of full faith and credit.
Nevertheless, there is scope within the framework of the
Constitution for holding in appropriate cases that a
judgment rendered in a class suit is res judicata as to
members of the class who are not formal parties to the
suit. Here, as elsewhere, the Fourteenth Amendment
does not compel state courts or legislatures to adopt any
particular rule for establishing the conclusiveness of
judgments in class suits; cf. Brown v. New Jersey, 175
U.S. 172; Brown v. Mississippi, 297 U.S. 278; United
Gas Public Service Co. v. Texas, 303 U.S. 123; Avery v.
Alabama, 308 U.S. 444, 446, 447, nor does it compel the
adoption of the particular rules thought by this Court to
be appropriate for the federal courts. With a proper
regard for divergent local institutions and interests, cf.
Jackson County v. United States, 308 U.S. 343, 351, this
Court is justified in saying that there has been a failure
of due process only in those cases where it cannot be
said that the procedure adopted, fairly insures the
protection of the interests of absent parties who are to
be bound by it. Chicago, B. & Q.R. Co. v. Chicago, 166
U.S. 226, 235.
It is familiar doctrine of the federal courts that members
of a class not present as parties to the litigation [311 U.S.
43] may be bound by the judgment where they are in
fact adequately represented by parties who are present,
or where they actually participate in the conduct of the
litigation in which members of the class are present as
parties, Plumb v. Goodnow's Administrator, 123 U.S.
560; Confectioners' Machinery Co. v. Racine Engine &
Mach. Co., 163 F. 914; 170 F. 1021; Bryant Electric Co.
v. Marshall, 169 F. 426, or where the interest of the
members of the class, some of whom are present as
parties, is joint, or where for any other reason the
relationship between the parties present and those who
are absent is such as legally to entitle the former to stand
in judgment for the latter. Smith v. Swormstedt, supra;
cf. Christopher v. Brusselback, supra, 503, 504, and cases
cited.
In all such cases, so far as it can be said that the members
of the class who are present are, by generally recognized
rules of law, entitled to stand in judgment for those who
are not, we may assume for present purposes that such
procedure affords a protection to the parties who are
represented, though absent, which would satisfy the
requirements of due process and full faith and credit See
Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U.S. 516; Marin v.
Augedahl, 247 U.S. 142; Chandler v. Peketz, 297 U.S.
609. Nor do we find it necessary for the decision of this
case to say that, when the only circumstance defining
the class is that the determination of the rights of its
members turns upon a single issue of fact or law, a state
could not constitutionally adopt a procedure whereby
some of the members of the class could stand in
judgment for all, provided that the procedure were so
devised and applied as to insure that those present are of
the same class as those absent and that the litigation is so
conducted as to insure the full and fair consideration of
the common issue. Compare New England Divisions
Case, 261 U.S. 184, 197; Taggart v. Bremner, 236 F. 544.
[311 U.S. 44] We decide only that the procedure and the
course of litigation sustained here by the plea of res
judicata do not satisfy these requirements.
The restrictive agreement did not purport to create a
joint obligation or liability. If valid and effective its
promises were the several obligations of the signers and
those claiming under them. The promises ran severally
to every other signer. It is plain that in such
circumstances all those alleged to be bound by the
agreement would not constitute a single class in any
litigation brought to enforce it. Those who sought to
secure its benefits by enforcing it could not be said to be
in the same class with or represent those whose interest
was in resisting performance, for the agreement by its
terms imposes obligations and confers rights on the
owner of each plot of land who signs it. If those who
thus seek to secure the benefits of the agreement were
rightly regarded by the state Supreme Court as
constituting a class, it is evident that those signers or
their successors who are interested in challenging the
validity of the agreement and resisting its performance
are not of the same class in the sense that their interests
are identical so that any group who had elected to
enforce rights conferred by the agreement could be said
to be acting in the interest of any others who were free
to deny its obligation.
Because of the dual and potentially conflicting interests
of those who are putative parties to the agreement in
compelling or resisting its performance, it is impossible
to say, solely because they are parties to it, that any two
of them are of the same class. Nor without more, and
with the due regard for the protection of the rights of
absent parties which due process exacts, can some be
permitted to stand in judgment for all.
It is one thing to say that some members of a class may
represent other members in a litigation where the sole
and common interest of the class in the litigation, is
either to assert a common right or to challenge an [311
U.S. 45] asserted obligation. Smith v. Swormstedt, supra;
Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur v. Cauble, supra; Groves v.
Farmers State Bank, 368 Ill. 35; 12 N.E.2d 618. It is quite
another to hold that all those who are free alternatively
either to assert rights or to challenge them are of a single
class, so that any group, merely because it is of the class
so constituted, may be deemed adequately to represent
any others of the class in litigating their interests in
either alternative. Such a selection of representatives for
purposes of litigation, whose substantial interests are
not necessarily or even probably the same as those
whom they are deemed to represent, does not afford
that protection to absent parties which due process
requires. The doctrine of representation of absent
parties in a class suit has not hitherto been thought to go
so far. See Terry v. Bank of Cape Fear, 20 F. 777, 781;
Weidenfeld v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 129 F. 305, 310;
McQuillen v. National Cash Register Co., 22 F.Supp.
867, 873, aff'd 112 F.2d 877, 882; Brenner v. Title
Guarantee & Trust Co., 276 N.Y. 230; 11 N.E.2d 890; cf.
Wabash R. Co. v. Adelbert College, 208 U.S. 38; Coe v.
Armour Fertilizer Works, 237 U.S. 413. Apart from the
opportunities it would afford for the fraudulent and
collusive sacrifice of the rights of absent parties, we
think that the representation in this case no more
satisfies the requirements of due process than a trial by a
judicial officer who is in such situation that he may have
an interest in the outcome of the litigation in conflict
with that of the litigants. Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U.S. 510.
The plaintiffs in the Burke case sought to compel
performance of the agreement in behalf of themselves
and all others similarly situated. They did not designate
the defendants in the suit as a class or seek any
injunction or other relief against others than the named
defendants, and the decree which was entered did not
purport to bind others. In seeking to enforce the
agreement the plaintiffs [311 U.S. 46] in that suit were
not representing the petitioners here whose substantial
interest is in resisting performance. The defendants in
the first suit were not treated by the pleadings or decree
as representing others or as foreclosing by their defense
the rights of others; and, even though nominal
defendants, it does not appear that their interest in
defeating the contract outweighed their interest in
establishing its validity. For a court in this situation to
ascribe to either the plaintiffs or defendants the
performance of such functions on behalf of petitioners
here, is to attribute to them a power that it cannot be
said that they had assumed to exercise, and a
responsibility which, in view of their dual interests it
does not appear that they could rightly discharge.
Reversed.