The principal question in this case is whether in
diversity cases the federal courts must follow conflict of
laws rules prevailing in the states in which they sit. We
left this open in Ruhlin v. New York Life Insurance Co.,
304 U.S. 202, 208, n. 2. The frequent recurrence of the
problem, as well as the conflict of approach to the
problem between the Third Circuit's opinion here and
that of the First Circuit in Sampson v. Channell, 110
F.2d 754, 759-62, led us to grant certiorari.
In 1918, respondent, a New York corporation,
transferred its entire business to petitioner, a Delaware
corporation. Petitioner contracted to use its best efforts
to further the manufacture and sale of certain patented
devices covered by the agreement, and respondent was
to have a share of petitioner's profits. The agreement
was executed in New York, the assets were transferred
there, and petitioner began performance there although
later it moved its operations to other states. Respondent
was voluntarily dissolved under New York law in 1919.
Ten years later it instituted this action in the United
States District Court for the District of Delaware,
alleging that petitioner had failed to perform its
agreement to use its best efforts. Jurisdiction rested on
diversity of citizenship. In 1939 respondent recovered a
jury verdict of $100,000, upon which judgment was
entered. Respondent then moved to correct the
judgment by adding interest [313 U.S. 495] at the rate of
six percent from June 1, 1929, the date the action had
been brought. The basis of the motion was the
provision in § 480 of the New York Civil Practice Act
directing that in contract actions interest be added to the
principal sum "whether theretofore liquidated or
unliquidated."1 The District Court granted the motion,
taking the view that the rights of the parties were
governed by New York law and that under New York
law the addition of such interest was mandatory. 30
F.Supp. 425, 431. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed, 115 F.2d 268, and we granted certiorari,
limited to the question whether § 480 of the New York
Civil Practice Act is applicable to an action in the federal
court in Delaware. 312 U.S. 674.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of the view that under
New York law the right to interest before verdict under
§ 480 went to the substance of the obligation, and that
proper construction of the contract in suit fixed New
York as the place of performance. It then concluded that
§ 480 was applicable to the case because "it is clear by
what we think is undoubtedly the better view of the law
that the rules for ascertaining the measure of damages
are not a matter of procedure at all, but are [313 U.S.
496] matters of substance which should be settled by
reference to the law of the appropriate state according to
the type of case being tried in the forum. The measure
of damages for breach of a contract is determined by the
law of the place of performance; Restatement, Conflict
of Laws § 413." The court referred also to § 418 of the
Restatement, which makes interest part of the damages
to be determined by the law of the place of performance.
Application of the New York statute apparently
followed from the court's independent determination of
the "better view" without regard to Delaware law, for no
Delaware decision or statute was cited or discussed.
We are of opinion that the prohibition declared in Erie
R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64, against such
independent determinations by the federal courts,
extends to the field of conflict of laws. The conflict of
laws rules to be applied by the federal court in Delaware
must conform to those prevailing in Delaware's state
courts.2 Otherwise, the accident of diversity of
citizenship would constantly disturb equal
administration of justice in coordinate state and federal
courts sitting side by side. See Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,
supra, at 74-77. Any other ruling would do violence to
the principle of uniformity within a state, upon which
the Tompkins decision is based. Whatever lack of
uniformity this may produce between federal courts in
different states is attributable to our federal system,
which leaves to a state, within the limits permitted by
the Constitution, the right to pursue local policies
diverging from those of its neighbors. It is not for the
federal courts to thwart such local policies by enforcing
an independent "general law" of conflict of laws. Subject
only to review by this Court [313 U.S. 497] on any
federal question that may arise, Delaware is free to
determine whether a given matter is to be governed by
the law of the forum or some other law. Cf. Milwaukee
County v. White Co., 296 U.S. 268, 272. This Court's
views are not the decisive factor in determining the
applicable conflicts rule. Cf. Funkhouser v. J.B. Preston
Co., 290 U.S. 163. And the proper function of the
Delaware federal court is to ascertain what the state law
is, not what it ought to be.
Besides these general considerations, the traditional
treatment of interest in diversity cases brought in the
federal courts points to the same conclusion. Section 966
of the Revised Statutes, 28 U.S.C. § 811, relating to
interest on judgments, provides that it be calculated
from the date of judgment at such rate as is allowed by
law on judgments recovered in the courts of the state in
which the court is held. In Massachusetts Benefit
Association v. Miles, 137 U.S. 689, this Court held that §
966 did not exclude the allowance of interest on verdicts
as well as judgments, and the opinion observed that "the
courts of the state and the federal courts sitting within
the state should be in harmony upon this point" (p. 691).
Looking then to the Delaware cases, petitioner relies on
one group to support his contention that the Delaware
state courts would refuse to apply § 480 of the New
York Civil Practice Act, and respondent on another to
prove the contrary. We make no analysis of these
Delaware decisions, but leave this for the Circuit Court
of Appeals when the case is remanded.
Respondent makes the further argument that the
judgment must be affirmed because, under the full faith
and credit clause of the Constitution, the state courts of
Delaware would be obliged to give effect to the New
York statute. The argument rests mainly on the decision
of this Court in John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Yates, 299 U.S. 178,[313 U.S. 498] where a New York
statute was held such an integral part of a contract of
insurance, that Georgia was compelled to sustain the
contract under the full faith and credit clause. Here,
however, § 480 of the New York Civil Practice Act is in
no way related to the validity of the contract in suit, but
merely to an incidental item of damages, interest, with
respect to which courts at the forum have commonly
been free to apply their own or some other law as they
see fit. Nothing in the Constitution ensures unlimited
extraterritorial recognition of all statutes or of any
statute under all circumstances. Pacific Employers
Insurance Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306 U.S.
493; Kryger v. Wilson, 242 U.S. 171. The full faith and
credit clause does not go so far as to compel Delaware to
apply § 480 if such application would interfere with its
local policy.
Accordingly, the judgment is reversed and the case
remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for decision in
conformity with the law of Delaware.
Reversed