Petitioner seeks benefits for total and permanent
disability by reason of insanity he claims existed May 31,
1919. On that day his policy of yearly renewable term
insurance lapsed for nonpayment of premium.1
[319 U.S. 373] The suit was filed June 15, 1938. At the
close of all the evidence, the District Court granted the
Government's motion for a directed verdict. Judgment
was entered accordingly. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed. 130 F.2d 467. Both courts held the evidence
legally insufficient to sustain a verdict for petitioner. He
says this was erroneous and, in effect, deprived him of
trial by jury, contrary to the Seventh Amendment.
The constitutional argument, as petitioner has made it,
does not challenge generally the power of federal courts
to withhold or withdraw from the jury cases in which
the claimant puts forward insufficient evidence to
support a verdict.2 The contention is merely that his
case as made was substantial, the courts' decisions to the
contrary were wrong, and therefore their effect has been
to deprive him of a jury trial. Petitioner relies
particularly upon Halliday v. United States, 315 U.S. 94,
and Berry v. United States, 312 U.S. 450, citing also
Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U.S. 90. These cases and others
relied upon are distinguishable upon the facts, as will
appear. Upon the record and the issues as the parties
have made them, the only question is whether the
evidence was sufficient to sustain a verdict for
petitioner. On that basis, we think the judgments must
be affirmed.
I.
Certain facts are undisputed. Petitioner worked as a
longshoreman in Philadelphia and elsewhere prior to
enlistment [319 U.S. 374] in the Army November 1,
1917.3 He became a cook in a machine gun battalion.
His unit arrived in France in April, 1918. He served
actively until September 24. From then to the following
January he was in a hospital with influenza. He then
returned to active duty. He came back to the United
States, and received honorable discharge April 29, 1919.
He enlisted in the Navy January 15, 1920, and was
discharged for bad conduct in July. The following
December he again enlisted in the Army and served
until May 1922, when he deserted. Thereafter he was
carried on the Army records as a deserter.
In 1930 began a series of medical examinations by
Veterans' Bureau physicians. On May 19 that year his
condition was diagnosed as "Moron, low grade;
observation, dementia praecox, simple type." In
November, 1931, further examination gave the
diagnosis, "Psychosis with other diseases or conditions
(organic disease of the central nervous system — type
undetermined)." In July, 1934, still another examination
was made, with diagnosis: "Psychosis-manic and
depressive insanity incompetent; hypertension,
moderate; otitis media, chronic, left; varicose veins left,
mild; abscessed teeth roots; myocarditis, mild."
Petitioner's wife, the nominal party in this suit, was
appointed guardian of his person and estate in February,
1932. Claim for insurance benefits was made in June,
1934, and was finally denied by the Board of Veterans'
Appeals in January, 1936. This suit followed two and a
half years later.
Petitioner concededly is now totally and permanently
disabled by reason of insanity and has been for some
time prior to institution of this suit. It is conceded also
that [319 U.S. 375] he was sound in mind and body until
he arrived in France in April, 1918.
The theory of his case is that the strain of active service
abroad brought on an immediate change, which was the
beginning of a mental breakdown that has grown worse
continuously through all the later years. Essential in this
is the view it had become a total and permanent
disability not later than May 31, 1919.
The evidence to support this theory falls naturally into
three periods, namely, that prior to 1923; the interval
from then to 1930; and that following 1930. It consists
in proof of incidents occurring in France to show the
beginnings of change; testimony of changed appearance
and behavior in the years immediately following
petitioner's return to the United States as compared
with those prior to his departure; the medical evidence
of insanity accumulated in the years following 1930; and
finally the evidence of a physician, given largely as
medical opinion, which seeks to tie all the other
evidence together as foundation for the conclusion,
expressed as of 1941, that petitioner's disability was total
and permanent as of a time not later than May of 1919.
Documentary exhibits included military, naval and
Veterans' Bureau records. Testimony was given by
deposition or at the trial chiefly by five witnesses. One,
O'Neill, was a fellow worker and friend from boyhood;
two, Wells and Tanikawa, served with petitioner
overseas; Lt. Col. Albert K. Mathews, who was an Army
chaplain, observed him or another person of the same
name at an Army hospital in California during early
1920; and Dr. Wilder, a physician, examined him
shortly before the trial and supplied the only expert
testimony in his behalf. The petitioner also put into
evidence the depositions of Commander Platt and Lt.
Col. James E. Matthews, his superior officers in the
Navy and the Army, respectively, during 1920-22.
[319 U.S. 376] What happened in France during 1918-19
is shown chiefly by Wells and Tanikawa. Wells testified
to an incident at Aisonville, where the unit was billeted
shortly after reaching France and before going into
action. Late at night petitioner created a disturbance,
"hollering, screeching, swearing. . . . The men poured
out from the whole section." Wells did not see the
incident, but heard petitioner swearing at his superior
officers and saw "the result, a black eye for Lt. Warner."
However, he did not see "who gave it to him."4 Wells
personally observed no infraction of discipline except
this incident, and did not know what brought it on.
Petitioner's physical appearance was good, he "carried
on his duties as a cook all right," and the witness did not
see him after June 1, except for about three days in July
when he observed petitioner several times at work
feeding stragglers.
Tanikawa, Hawaiian-born citizen, served with
petitioner from the latter's enlistment until September,
1918, when Galloway was hospitalized, although the
witness thought they had fought together and petitioner
was "acting queer" at the Battle of the Argonne in
October. At Camp Greene, North Carolina, petitioner
was "just a regular soldier, very normal, . . . pretty neat."
After reaching France "he was getting nervous . . ., kind
of irritable, always picking a fight with other soldiers."
This began at Aisonville. Tanikawa saw Galloway in jail,
apparently before June. It is not clear whether these are
references to the incident Wells described.
Tanikawa described another incident in June "when we
were on the Marne," the Germans "were on the other
side and we were on this side." It was a new front,
without trenches. The witness and petitioner were on
guard duty with others. Tanikawa understood the
Germans [319 U.S. 377] were getting ready for a big
drive. "One night he [petitioner] screamed. He said,
`The Germans are coming' and we all gagged him."
There was no shooting, the Germans were not coming,
and there was nothing to lead the witness to believe they
were. Petitioner was court-martialed for the matter, but
Tanikawa did not know "what they did with him." He
did not talk with Galloway that night, because "he was
out of his mind" and appeared insane. Tanikawa did not
know when petitioner left the battalion or what
happened to him after (as the witness put it) the
Argonne fight, but heard he went to the hospital, "just
dressing station I guess." The witness next saw Galloway
in 1936, at a disabled veterans' post meeting in
Sacramento, California. Petitioner then "looked to me
like he wasn't all there. Insane. About the same .. . as
compared to the way he acted in France, particularly
when they gagged him . . ."
O'Neill was "born and raised with" petitioner, worked
with him as a longshoreman, and knew him "from when
he come out of the army for seven years, . . . I would say
five or six years." When petitioner returned in April or
May, 1919, "he was a wreck compared to what he was
when he went away. The fallow's mind was evidently
unbalanced." Symptoms specified were withdrawing to
himself; crying spells; alternate periods of normal
behavior and nonsensical talk; expression of fears that
good friends wanted "to beat him up"; spitting blood and
remarking about it in vulgar terms. Once petitioner said,
"G____ d____ it, I must be a Doctor Jekyll and Mr.
Hyde."
O'Neill testified these symptoms and this condition
continued practically the same for about five years. In
his opinion petitioner was "competent at times and
others was incompetent." The intervals might be "a
couple of days, a couple of months." In his normal
periods Galloway "would be his old self . . . absolutely
O.K."
[319 U.S. 378] O'Neill was definite in recalling
petitioner's condition and having seen him frequently in
1919, chiefly however, and briefly, on the street during
lunch hour. He was not sure Galloway was working and
was "surprised he got in the Navy, I think in the Navy or
in the Government service."
O'Neill maintained he saw petitioner "right on from that
[1920] at times." But his recollection of dates, number of
opportunities for observation, and concrete events was
wholly indefinite. He would fix no estimate for the
number of times he had seen petitioner: "In 1920 I
couldn't recall whether it was one or a thousand." For
later years he would not say whether it was "five times
or more or less." When he was pinned down by crossexamination,
the effect of his testimony was that he
recalled petitioner clearly in 1919 "because there was
such a vast contrast in the man," but for later years he
could give little or no definite information. The excerpt
from the testimony set forth in the margin5 shows this
contrast. [319 U.S. 379] We also summarize below6
other evidence which explains or illustrates the
vagueness of the witness' recollection for events after
1919. O'Neill recalled one specific occasion after 1919
when petitioner returned to Philadelphia, "around 1920
or 1921, but I couldn't be sure," to testify in a criminal
proceeding. He also said, "After he was away for five or
six years, he came back to Philadelphia, but I wouldn't
know nothing about dates on that. He was back in
Philadelphia for five or six months or so, and he was still
just evidently all right, and then he would be off."
Lt. Col. (Chaplain) Mathews said he observed a Private
Joseph Galloway, who was a prisoner for desertion and
a patient in the mental ward at Fort MacArthur Station
[319 U.S. 380] Hospital, California, during a six weeks
period early in 1920. The chaplain's testimony gives
strong evidence the man he observed was insane.
However, there is a fatal weakness in this evidence. In
his direct testimony, which was taken by deposition, the
chaplain said he was certain that the soldier was
petitioner. When confronted with the undisputed fact
that petitioner was on active duty in the Navy during
the first half of 1920, the witness at first stated that he
might have been mistaken as to the time of his
observation. Subsequently he reasserted the accuracy of
his original statement as to the time of observation, but
admitted that he might have been mistaken in believing
that the patient-prisoner was petitioner. In this
connection he volunteered the statement, "Might I add,
sir, that I could not now identify that soldier if I were to
meet him face to face, and that is because of the long
lapse of time." The patient whom the witness saw was
confined to his bed. The record is barren of other
evidence, whether by the hospital's or the Army's
records or otherwise, to show that petitioner was either
patient or prisoner at Fort MacArthur in 1920 or at any
other time.
Commander Platt testified that petitioner caused
considerable trouble by disobedience and leaving ship
without permission during his naval service in the first
half of 1920. After "repeated warnings and punishments,
leading to courts martial," he was sentenced to a bad
conduct discharge.
Lt. Col. James E. Matthews (not the chaplain) testified
by deposition which petitioner's attorney interrupted
Dr. Wilder's testimony to read into evidence. The
witness was Galloway's commanding officer from early
1921 to the summer of that year, when petitioner was
transferred with other soldiers to another unit. At first,
Colonel Matthews considered making petitioner a
corporal, but found him unreliable and had to discipline
him. Petitioner "drank [319 U.S. 381] considerably," was
"what we called a bolshevik," did not seem loyal, and
"acted as if he was not getting a square deal." The officer
concluded "he was a moral pervert and probably used
narcotics," but could not secure proof of this. Galloway
was court-martialed for public drunkenness and
disorderly conduct, served a month at hard labor, and
returned to active duty. At times he "was one of the very
best soldiers I had," at others undependable. He was
physically sound, able to do his work, perform close
order drill, etc., "very well." He had alternate periods of
gaiety and depression, talked incoherently at times, gave
the impression he would fight readily, but did not resent
orders and seemed to get along well with other soldiers.
The officer attributed petitioner's behavior to alcohol
and narcotics, and it occurred to him at no time to
question his sanity.
Dr. Wilder was the key witness. He disclaimed
specializing in mental disease, but qualified as having
given it "special attention." He first saw petitioner
shortly before the trial, examined him "several times."
He concluded petitioner's ailment "is a schizophrenic
branch or form of praecox." Dr. Wilder heard the
testimony and read the depositions of the other
witnesses, and examined the documentary evidence.
Basing his judgment upon this material, with inferences
drawn from it, he concluded petitioner was born with
"an inherent instability," though he remained normal
until he went to France; began there "to be subjected to
the strain of military life, then he began to go to pieces."
In May, 1919, petitioner "was still suffering from the
acuteness of the breakdown . . . He is going down hill
still, but the thing began with the breakdown . . ."
Petitioner was "definitely insane, yes, sir," in 1920 and
"has been insane at all times, at least since July, 1918, the
time of this episode on the Marne"; that is, "to the point
that he was unable to adapt himself. I don't mean he has
not had moments when he could not [sic] perform some
routine tasks," but "from an occupational [319 U.S. 382]
standpoint . . . he has been insane." He could follow "a
mere matter of routine," but would have no incentive,
would not keep a steady job, come to work on time, or
do anything he didn't want to do. Dr. Wilder pointed to
petitioner's work record before he entered the service
and observed: "At no time after he went into the war do
we find him able to hold any kind of a job. He broke
right down." He explained petitioner's enlistment in the
Navy and later in the Army by saying, "It would have
been no trick at all for a man who was reasonably
conforming to get into the Service." (Emphasis added.)
However, the witness knew "nothing whatever except
his getting married" about petitioner's activities between
1925 and 1930, and what he knew of them between
1922 and 1925 was based entirely on O'Neill's testimony
and a paper not of record here.7 Dr. Wilder at first
regarded knowledge concerning what petitioner was
doing between 1925 and 1930 as not essential. "We have
a continuing disease, quite obviously beginning during
his military service, and quite obviously continuing in
1930, and the minor incidents don't seem to me ____"
(Emphasis added.) Counsel for the government
interrupted to inquire, "Well, if he was continuously
employed for eight hours a day from 1925 to 1930
would that have any bearing?" The witness replied, "It
would have a great deal." Upon further questioning,
however, he reverted to his first position, stating it
would not be necessary or helpful for him to know what
petitioner was doing from 1925 to 1930: "I testified from
the information I had."
II.
This, we think, is the crux of the case and distinguishes
it from the cases on which petitioner has relied.8 His
burden [319 U.S. 383] was to prove total and permanent
disability as of a date not later than May 31, 1919. He
has undertaken to do this by showing incipience of
mental disability shortly before that time and its
continuance and progression throughout the succeeding
years. He has clearly established incidence of total and
permanent disability as of some period prior to 1938,
when he began this suit.9 For our purposes this may be
taken as medically established by the Veterans' Bureau
examination and diagnosis of July, 1934.10
But if the record is taken to show that some form of
mental disability existed in 1930, which later became
total and permanent, petitioner's problem remains to
demonstrate by more than speculative inference that
this condition itself began on or before May 31, 1919,
and continuously [319 U.S. 384] existed or progressed
through the intervening years to 1930.
To show origin before the crucial date, he gives
evidence of two abnormal incidents occurring while he
was in France, one creating the disturbance before he
came near the fighting front, the other yelling that the
Germans were coming when he was on guard duty at
the Marne. There is no other evidence of abnormal
behavior during his entire service of more than a year
abroad.
That he was court-martialed for these sporadic acts and
bound and gagged for one does not prove he was insane
or had then a general breakdown in "an already fragile
mental constitution," which the vicissitudes of a
longshoreman's life had not been able to crack.
To these two incidents petitioner adds the testimony of
O'Neill that he looked and acted like a wreck, compared
with his former self, when he returned from France
about a month before the crucial date, and O'Neill's
vague recollections that this condition continued
through the next two, three, four, or five years.
O'Neill's testimony apparently takes no account of
petitioner's having spent 101 days in a hospital in France
with influenza just before he came home. But, given the
utmost credence, as is required, it does no more than
show that petitioner was subject to alternating periods
of gaiety and depression for some indefinite period after
his return, extending perhaps as late as 1922. But
because of its vagueness as to time, dates, frequency of
opportunity for observation, and specific incident,
O'Neill's testimony concerning the period from 1922 to
1925 is hardly more than speculative.
We have then the two incidents in France, followed by
O'Neill's testimony of petitioner's changed condition in
1919 and its continuance to 1922.11 There is also the
[319 U.S. 385] testimony of Commander Platt and Lt.
Col. James E. Matthews as to his service in the Navy and
the Army, respectively, during 1920-1922. Neither
thought petitioner was insane or that his conduct
indicated insanity. Then follows a chasm of eight years.
The only evidence12 we have concerning this period is
the fact that petitioner married his present guardian at
some time within it, an act from which in the legal sense
no inference of insanity can be drawn.
This period was eight years of continuous insanity,
according to the inference petitioner would be allowed
to have drawn. If so, he should have no need of
inference. Insanity so long and continuously sustained
does not hide itself from the eyes and ears of witnesses.13
The assiduity [319 U.S. 386] which produced the
evidence of two "crazy" incidents during a year and a
half in France should produce one during eight years or,
for that matter, five years in the United States.
Inference is capable of bridging many gaps. But not, in
these circumstances, one so wide and deep as this.
Knowledge of petitioner's activities and behavior from
1922 or 1925 to 1930 was peculiarly within his ken and
that of his wife, who has litigated this cause in his and
presumably, though indirectly, in her own behalf. His
was the burden to show continuous disability. What he
did in this time, or did not do, was vital to his case.
Apart from the mere fact of his marriage, the record is
blank for five years and almost blank for eight. For all
that appears, he may have worked full time and
continuously for five and perhaps for eight, with only a
possible single interruption.14
No favorable inference can be drawn from the omission.
It was not one of oversight or inability to secure proof.
That is shown by the thoroughness with which the
record was prepared for all other periods, before and
after this one, and by the fact petitioner's wife, though
she married him during the period and was available,
did not testify. The only reasonable conclusion is that
petitioner, or those who acted for him, deliberately
chose, for reasons no doubt considered sufficient (and
which we do not criticize, since [319 U.S. 387] such
matters, including tactical ones, are for the judgment of
counsel), to present no evidence or perhaps to withhold
evidence readily available concerning this long interval,
and to trust to the genius of expert medical inference
and judicial laxity to bridge this canyon.
In the circumstances exhibited, the former is not equal
to the feat, and the latter will not permit it. No case has
been cited and none has been found in which inference,
however expert, has been permitted to make so broad a
leap and take the place of evidence which, according to
all reason, must have been at hand.15 To allow this
would permit the substitution of inference, tenuous at
best, not merely for evidence absent because impossible
or difficult to secure, but for evidence disclosed to be
available and not produced. This would substitute
speculation for proof. Furthermore, the inference would
be more plausible perhaps if the evidence of insanity as
of May, 1919, were stronger than it is, such for instance
as Chaplain Mathews' testimony would have furnished
if it could be taken as applying to petitioner. But, on this
record, the evidence of insanity as of that time is thin at
best, if it can be regarded as at all more than
speculative.16
Beyond this, there is nothing to show totality or
permanence. These come only by what the Circuit
Court of Appeals rightly characterized as "long-range
retroactive diagnosis." That might suffice,
notwithstanding this crucial inference was a matter of
opinion, if there were factual evidence over which the
medical eye could travel and find continuity through the
intervening years. Cf. Halliday v. United States, supra.
But eight years are too many to permit it to skip, when
the bridgeheads (if the figure may be changed) at each
end are no stronger than [319 U.S. 388] they are here,
and when the seer first denies, then admits, then denies
again, that what took place in this time would make "a
great deal" of difference in what he saw. Expert medical
inference rightly can do much. But we think the feat
attempted here too large for its accomplishment.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought petitioner's
enlistments and service in the Navy and Army in 1920-
1922 were in themselves "such physical facts as refute
any reasonable inferences which may be drawn from the
evidence here presented by him that he was totally and
permanently disabled during the life of his policy." 130
F.2d 471; cf. Atkins v. United States, 63 App. D.C. 164,
70 F.2d 768, 771; United States v. Le Duc, 48 F.2d 789,
793 (C.C.A.). The opinion also summarizes and
apparently takes account of the evidence presented on
behalf of the Government. 130 F.2d 469, 470. In view of
the ground upon which we have placed the decision, we
need not consider these matters.
III.
What has been said disposes of the case as the parties
have made it. For that reason perhaps nothing more
need be said. But objection has been advanced that, in
some manner not wholly clear, the directed verdict
practice offends the Seventh Amendment.
It may be noted, first, that the Amendment has no
application of its own force to this case. The suit is one
to enforce a monetary claim against the United States. It
hardly can be maintained that under the common law in
1791 jury trial was a matter of right for persons
asserting claims against the sovereign.17 Whatever force
the [319 U.S. 389] Amendment has therefore is derived
because Congress, in the legislation cited,18 has made it
applicable. Even so, the objection made on the score of
its requirements is untenable.
If the intention is to claim generally that the
Amendment deprives the federal courts of power to
direct a verdict for insufficiency of evidence, the short
answer is the contention has been foreclosed by
repeated decisions made here consistently for nearly a
century.19 More recently the practice has been approved
explicitly in the promulgation of the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure. Cf. Rule 50; Berry v. United States, 312
U.S. 450. The objection therefore comes too late.
Furthermore, the argument from history is not
convincing. It is not that "the rules of the common law"
in 1791 deprived trial courts of power to withdraw cases
from the [319 U.S. 390] jury, because not made out, or
appellate courts of power to review such
determinations. The jury was not absolute master of fact
in 1791. Then as now courts excluded evidence for
irrelevancy and relevant proof for other reasons.20 The
argument concedes they weighed the evidence, not only
piecemeal but in toto for submission to the jury, by at
least two procedures, the demurrer to the evidence and
the motion for a new trial. The objection is not
therefore to the basic thing,21 which is the power of the
court to withhold cases from the jury or set aside the
verdict for insufficiency of the evidence. It is rather to
incidental or collateral effects, namely, that the directed
verdict as now administered differs from both those
procedures because, on the one hand, allegedly higher
standards of proof are required and, on the other,
different consequences follow as to further maintenance
of the litigation. Apart from the standards of proof, the
argument appears to urge that in 1791, a litigant could
challenge his opponent's evidence, either by the
demurrer, which when determined ended the litigation,
or by motion for a new trial which, if successful, gave
the adversary another chance to prove his case; and
therefore the Amendment excluded any challenge to
which one or the other of these consequences does not
attach.
The Amendment did not bind the federal courts to the
exact procedural incidents or details of jury trial
according to the common law in 1791, any more than it
tied them to the common-law system of pleading or the
specific rules of evidence then prevailing.22 Nor were
"the rules of the [319 U.S. 391] common law" then
prevalent, including those relating to the procedure by
which the judge regulated the jury's role on questions of
fact, crystallized in a fixed and immutable system. On
the contrary, they were constantly changing and
developing during the late eighteenth and early
nineteenth centuries.23 In 1791 this process already had
[319 U.S. 392] resulted in widely divergent common-law
rules on procedural matters among the states, and
between them and England.24 And none of the
contemporaneous rules regarding judicial control of the
evidence going to juries or its sufficiency to support a
verdict had reached any precise, much less final, form.25
In addition, the passage of time has obscured much of
the procedure which then may have had more or less
definite form, even for historical purposes.26
This difficulty, no doubt, accounts for the amorphous
character of the objection now advanced, which insists,
not that any single one of the features criticized, but that
the cumulative total or the alternative effect of all, was
embodied in the Amendment. The more logical
conclusion, we think, and the one which both history
and the previous decisions here support, is that the
Amendment was designed to preserve the basic
institution of jury trial in only its most fundamental
elements, not the great mass of procedural forms and
details, varying even then so widely among commonlaw
jurisdictions.27
Apart from the uncertainty and the variety of
conclusion which follows from an effort at purely
historical accuracy, the consequences flowing from the
view asserted are sufficient to refute it. It may be
doubted that the Amendment requires challenge to an
opponent's case to be made without reference to the
merits of one's own and at the price of all opportunity to
have it considered. On the other hand, there is equal
room for disbelieving it [319 U.S. 393] compels endless
repetition of litigation and unlimited chance, by
education gained at the opposing party's expense, for
perfecting a case at other trials. The essential
inconsistency of these alternatives would seem sufficient
to refute that either or both, to the exclusion of all
others, received constitutional sanctity by the
Amendment's force. The first alternative, drawn from
the demurrer to the evidence, attributes to the
Amendment the effect of forcing one admission because
another and an entirely different one is made,28 and
thereby compels conclusion of the litigation once and
for all. The true effect of imposing such a risk would not
be to guarantee the plaintiff a jury trial. It would be
rather to deprive the defendant (or the plaintiff if he
were the challenger) of that right; or, if not that, then of
the right to challenge the legal sufficiency of the
opposing case. The Amendment was not framed or
adopted to deprive either party of either right. It is
impartial in its guaranty of both. To posit assertion of
one upon sacrifice of the other would dilute and distort
the full protection intended. The admitted validity of the
practice on the motion for a new trial goes far to
demonstrate this.29 It negatives any idea [319 U.S. 394]
that the challenge must be made at such a risk as the
demurrer imposed. As for the other alternative, it is not
urged that the Amendment guarantees another trial
whenever challenge to the sufficiency of evidence is
sustained. Cf. Berry v. United States, supra. That
argument, in turn, is precluded by the practice on
demurrer to the evidence.
Each of the classical modes of challenge, therefore,
disproves the notion that the characteristic feature of
the other, for effect upon continuing the litigation,
became a part of the Seventh Amendment's guaranty to
the exclusion of all others. That guaranty did not
incorporate conflicting constitutional policies, that
challenge to an opposing case must be made with the
effect of terminating the litigation finally and, at the
same time, with the opposite effect of requiring another
trial. Alternatives so contradictory give room, not for
the inference that one or the other is required, but
rather for the view that neither is essential.30
[319 U.S. 395] Finally, the objection appears to be
directed generally at the standards of proof judges have
required for submission of evidence to the jury. But
standards, contrary to the objection's assumption,
cannot be framed wholesale for the great variety of
situations in respect to which the question arises.31 Nor
is the matter greatly aided by substituting one general
formula for another. It hardly affords help to insist upon
"substantial evidence" rather than "some evidence" or
"any evidence," or vice versa. The matter is essentially
one to be worked out in particular situations and for
particular types of cases. Whatever may be the general
formulation, the essential requirement is that mere
speculation be not allowed to do duty for probative
facts, after making due allowance for all reasonably
possible inferences favoring the party whose case is
attacked. The mere difference in labels used to describe
this standard, whether it is applied under the demurrer
to the evidence32 or on motion for a directed verdict,
cannot amount to a departure from "the rules of the
common law" which the Amendment requires to be
followed.33 If there is abuse in this respect, the obvious
remedy is by correction on appellate review.
[319 U.S. 396] Judged by this requirement, or by any
standard other than sheer speculation, we are unable to
conclude that one whose burden, by the nature of his
claim, is to show continuing and total disability for
nearly twenty years supplies the essential proof of
continuity when he wholly omits to show his
whereabouts, activities or condition for five years,
although the record discloses evidence must have been
available, and, further, throws no light upon three
additional years, except for one vaguely described and
dated visit to his former home. Nothing in the Seventh
Amendment requires it should be allowed to join forces
with the jury system to bring about such a result. That
guaranty requires that the jury be allowed to make
reasonable inferences from facts proven in evidence
having a reasonable tendency to sustain them. It permits
expert opinion to have the force of fact when based on
facts which sustain it. But it does not require that
experts or the jury be permitted to make inferences
from the withholding of crucial facts, favorable in their
effects to the party who has the evidence of them in his
peculiar knowledge and possession, but elects to keep it
so. The words "total and permanent" are the statute's,
not our own. They mean something more than
incipient or occasional disability. We hardly need add
that we give full credence to all of the testimony. But
that cannot cure its inherent vagueness or supply
essential elements omitted or withheld.
Accordingly, the judgment is
Affirmed.