The Seventh Amendment to the Constitution provides:
"In suits at common law, where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall
be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury shall [319 U.S.
397] be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the
United States, than according to the rules of the
common law."
The Court here re-examines testimony offered in a
common law suit, weighs conflicting evidence, and
holds that the litigant may never take this case to a jury.
The founders of our government thought that trial of
fact by juries rather than by judges was an essential
bulwark of civil liberty.1 For this reason, among others,
they adopted Article III, § 2 of the Constitution, and the
Sixth and Seventh Amendments. Today's decision
marks a continuation of the gradual process of judicial
erosion which in one-hundred-fifty years has slowly
worn away a major portion of the essential guarantee of
the Seventh Amendment.
I.
Alexander Hamilton in The Federalist emphasized his
loyalty to the jury system in civil cases and declared that
jury verdicts should be re-examined, if at all, only "by a
second jury, either by remanding the cause to the court
below for a second trial of the fact, or by directing an
issue immediately out of the Supreme Court." He
divided the citizens of his time between those who
thought that [319 U.S. 398] jury trial was a "valuable
safeguard to liberty" and those who thought it was "the
very palladium of free government." However, he felt it
unnecessary to include in the Constitution a specific
provision placing jury trial in civil cases in the same high
position as jury trial in criminal cases.2
Hamilton's view, that constitutional protection of jury
trial in civil cases was undesirable, did not prevail. On
the contrary, in response to widespread demands from
the various State Constitutional Conventions, the first
Congress adopted the Bill of Rights containing the Sixth
and Seventh Amendments, intended to save trial in both
criminal and common law cases from legislative or
judicial abridgment.3 The first Congress expected the
Seventh Amendment to meet the objections of men like
Patrick Henry to the Constitution itself. Henry, speaking
in the Virginia Constitutional Convention, had
expressed the general conviction of the people of the
Thirteen States when he said, "Trial by jury is the best
appendage of freedom. . . . We are told that we are to
part with that trial by jury with which our ancestors
secured their lives and property. . . . I hope we shall
never be induced, by such arguments, to part with that
excellent mode of trial. No appeal can now be made as to
fact in common law suits. The unanimous verdict of
impartial men cannot be reversed."4 The first Congress,
therefore, [319 U.S. 399] provided for trial of common
law cases by a jury, even when such trials were in the
Supreme Court itself. 1 Stat. 73, 81.
In 1789, juries occupied the principal place in the
administration of justice. They were frequently in both
criminal5 and civil cases the arbiters not only of fact but
of law. Less than three years after the ratification of the
Seventh Amendment, this Court called a jury in a civil
case brought under our original jurisdiction. There was
no disagreement as to the facts of the case. Chief Justice
Jay, charging the jury for a unanimous Court, three of
whose members had sat in the Constitutional
Convention, said: "For as, on the one hand, it is
presumed that juries are the best judges of facts; it is, on
the other hand, presumable that the court are the best
judges of law. But still, both objects are lawfully within
your power of decision." Georgia v. Brailsford, 3 Dall. 1,
4. Similar views were held by state courts in
Connecticut, Massachusetts, Illinois, Louisiana and
presumably elsewhere.6
The principal method by which judges prevented cases
from going to the jury in the Seventeenth and
Eighteenth Centuries was by the demurrer to the
evidence, under [319 U.S. 400] which the defendant at
the end of the trial admitted all facts shown by the
plaintiff as well as all inferences which might be drawn
from the facts, and asked for a ruling of the Court on the
"law of the case."7 See for example Wright v. Pindar,
(1647) Aleyn 18 and Pawling v. United States, 4 Cranch
219. This practice fell into disuse in England in 1793,
Gibson v. Hunter, 2 H. B1. 187, and in the United States
federal courts in 1826, Fowle v. Alexandria, 11 Wheat.
320. The power of federal judges to comment to the jury
on the evidence gave them additional influence.
M'Lanahan v. Universal Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 170
(1828). The right of involuntary non-suit of a plaintiff,
which might have been used to expand judicial power at
jury expense was at first denied federal courts. Elmore v.
Grymes, 1 Pet. 469; DeWolf v. Rabaud, 1 Pet. 476; but
cf. Coughran v. Bigelow, 164 U.S. 301 (1896).
As Hamilton had declared in The Federalist, the basic
judicial control of the jury function was in the court's
power to order a new trial.8 In 1830, this Court said:
"The only modes known to the common law to reexamine
such facts, are the granting of a new trial by the
court where the issue was tried, or to which the record
was properly returnable; or the award of a venire facias
de novo, by an appellate court, for some error of law
which intervened in the proceedings." Parsons v.
Bedford, supra, at 448.9 That retrial by a new jury rather
than factual [319 U.S. 401] reevaluation by a court is a
constitutional right of genuine value was restated as
recently as Slocum v. New York Life Insurance Co., 228
U.S. 364.10
A long step toward the determination of fact by judges
instead of by juries was the invention of the directed
verdict.11 In 1850, what seems to have been the first
directed [319 U.S. 402] verdict case considered by this
Court, Parks v. Ross, 11 How. 362, was presented for
decision. The Court held that the directed verdict serves
the same purpose as the demurrer to the evidence, and
that since there was "no evidence whatever"12 on the
critical issue in the case, the directed verdict was
approved.13 The decision was an innovation, a
departure from the traditional rule restated only fifteen
years before in Greenleaf v. Birth, 9 Pet. 292, 299
(1835), in which this Court had said: "Where there is no
evidence tending to prove a particular fact, the court are
bound so to instruct the jury, when requested; but they
cannot legally give any instruction which shall take from
the jury the right of weighing the evidence and
determining what effect it shall have."
This new device contained potentialities for judicial
control of the jury which had not existed in the
demurrer to the evidence. In the first place, demurring
to the evidence [319 U.S. 403] was risky business, for in
so doing the party not only admitted the truth of all the
testimony against him but also all reasonable inferences
which might be drawn from it; and upon joinder in
demurrer the case was withdrawn from the jury while
the court proceeded to give final judgment either for or
against the demurrant. Hopkins v. Railroad, 96 Tenn.
409, 34 S.W. 1029; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How.
427, 436; Bass v. Rublee, 76 Vt. 395, 400, 57 A. 965.
Imposition of this risk was no mere technicality; for by
making withdrawal of a case from the jury dangerous to
the moving litigant's cause, the early law went far to
assure that facts would never be examined except by a
jury. Under the directed verdict practice, the moving
party takes no such chance, for if his motion is denied,
instead of suffering a directed verdict against him, his
case merely continues into the hands of the jury. The
litigant not only takes no risk by a motion for a directed
verdict, but in making such a motion gives himself two
opportunities to avoid the jury's decision; for under the
federal variant of judgment notwithstanding the verdict,
the judge may reserve opinion on the motion for a
directed verdict and then give judgment for the moving
party after the jury has formally found against him.14 In
the second place, under the directed verdict practice the
courts soon abandoned the "admission of all facts and
reasonable inferences" standard referred to, and created
the so-called "substantial evidence" rule which permitted
directed verdicts even though there was far more
evidence in the case than a plaintiff would have needed
to withstand a demurrer.
The substantial evidence rule did not spring into
existence immediately upon the adoption of the directed
verdict device. For a few more years15 federal judges [319
U.S. 404] held to the traditional rule that juries might
pass finally on facts if there was "any evidence" to
support a party's contention. The rule that a case must
go to the jury unless there was "no evidence" was
completely repudiated in Improvement Co. v. Munson,
14 Wall. 442, 447 (1871), upon which the Court today
relies in part. There the Court declared that "some"
evidence was not enough — there must be evidence
sufficiently persuasive to the judge so that he thinks "a
jury can properly proceed." The traditional rule was
given an ugly name, "the scintilla rule," to hasten its
demise. For a time, traces of the old formula remained,
as in Randall v. B. & O.R. Co., 109 U.S. 478, but the new
spirit prevailed. See for example Pleasants v. Fant, supra,
and Commissioners v. Clark, 94 U.S. 278. The same
transition from jury supremacy to jury subordination
through judicial decisions took place in state courts.16
Later cases permitted the development of added judicial
control.17 New and totally unwarranted formulas, which
should surely be eradicated from the law at the first
opportunity, were added as recently as 1929 in Gunning
v. Cooley, 281 U.S. 90, which, by sheerest dictum, made
new encroachments on the jury's constitutional
functions. There it was announced that a judge might
weigh the evidence to determine whether he, and not
the jury, [319 U.S. 405] thought it was "overwhelming"
for either party, and then direct a verdict. Cf. Pence v.
United States, 316 U.S. 332, 340. Gunning v. Cooley, at
94, also suggests, quite unnecessarily for its decision,
that "When a plaintiff produces evidence that is
consistent with an hypothesis that the defendant is not
negligent, and also with one that he is, his proof tends to
establish neither." This dictum, which assumes that a
judge can weigh conflicting evidence with mathematical
precision and which wholly deprives the jury of the
right to resolve that conflict, was applied in
Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Chamberlain, 288 U.S. 333. With
it, and other tools, jury verdicts on disputed facts have
been set aside or directed verdicts authorized so
regularly as to make the practice commonplace, while
the motion for directed verdict itself has become
routine. See for example Southern Railway Co. v.
Walters, 284 U.S. 190; Atlantic Coast Line v. Temple,
285 U.S. 143; Lumbra v. United States, 290 U.S. 551;
Pence v. United States, supra; and De Zon v. United
States, 318 U.S. 660.
Even Gunning v. Cooley, at 94, acknowledged that
"issues that depend on the credibility of witnesses . . . are
to be decided by the jury."18 Today the Court comes
dangerously close to weighing the credibility of a
witness and rejecting his testimony because the majority
do not believe it.
The story thus briefly told depicts the constriction of a
constitutional civil right and should not be continued.
[319 U.S. 406] Speaking of an aspect of this problem, a
contemporary writer saw the heart of the issue: "Such a
reversal of opinion [as that of a particular state court
concerning the jury function], if it were isolated, might
have little significance, but when many other courts
throughout the country are found to be making the
same shift and to be doing so despite the provisions of
statutes and constitutions there is revealed one aspect of
that basic conflict in the legal history of America — the
conflict between the people's aspiration for democratic
government,19 and the judiciary's desire for the orderly
supervision of public affairs by judges."20
The language of the Seventh Amendment cannot easily
be improved by formulas.21 The statement of a district
judge in Tarter v. United States, 17 F.Supp. 691, 692-
693, represents, in my opinion, the minimum meaning
of the Seventh Amendment:
"The Seventh Amendment to the Constitution
guarantees a jury trial in law cases, where there is
substantial [319 U.S. 407] evidence to support the claim
of the plaintiff in an action. If a single witness testifies to
a fact sustaining the issue between the parties, or if
reasoning minds might reach different conclusions from
the testimony of a single witness, one of which would
substantially support the issue of the contending party,
the issue must be left to the jury. Trial by jury is a
fundamental guaranty of the rights of the people, and
judges should not search the evidence with meticulous
care to deprive litigants of jury trials."
The call for the true application of the Seventh
Amendment is not to words, but to the spirit of honest
desire to see that constitutional right preserved. Either
the judge or the jury must decide facts and, to the extent
that we take this responsibility, we lessen the jury
function. Our duty to preserve this one of the Bill of
Rights may be peculiarly difficult, for here it is our own
power which we must restrain. We should not fail to
meet the expectation of James Madison, who, in
advocating the adoption of the Bill of Rights, said:
"Independent tribunals of justice will consider
themselves in a peculiar manner the guardians of those
rights; . . . they will be naturally led to resist every
encroachment upon rights expressly stipulated for in the
Constitution by the declaration of right." So few of these
cases come to this Court that, as a matter of fact, the
judges of the District Courts and the Circuit Courts of
Appeals are the primary custodians of the Amendment.
As for myself, I believe that a verdict should be directed,
if at all, only when, without weighing the credibility of
the witnesses, there is in the evidence no room
whatever for honest difference of opinion over the
factual issue in controversy. I shall continue to believe
that in all other cases a judge should, in obedience to the
command of the Seventh Amendment, not interfere
with the jury's function. Since this is a matter of high
constitutional importance, appellate courts should be
alert to insure the preservation of this constitutional
right even though each case necessarily turns on its
peculiar circumstances.
[319 U.S. 408] II.
The factual issue for determination here is whether the
petitioner incurred a total and permanent disability not
later than May 31, 1919. It is undisputed that the
petitioner's health was sound in 1918, and it is evidently
conceded that he was disabled at least since 1930. When,
in the intervening period, did the disability take place?
A doctor who testified diagnosed the petitioner's case as
a schizophrenic form of dementia praecox. He declared
it to be sound medical theory that while a normal man
can retain his sanity in the face of severe mental or
physical shock, some persons are born with an inherent
instability so that they are mentally unable to stand
sudden and severe strain. The medical testimony was
that this petitioner belongs to the latter class and that
the shock of actual conflict on the battle front brought
on the incurable affliction from which he now suffers.
The medical witness testified that the dominant
symptoms of the condition are extreme introversion and
preoccupation with personal interests, a persecution
complex, and an emotional instability which may be
manifested by extreme exhilaration alternating with
unusual depression or irrational outbursts. Persons
suffering from this disease are therefore unable to
engage in continuous employment.
The petitioner relies on the testimony of wartime and
postwar companions and superiors to show that his
present mental condition existed on the crucial date.
There is substantial testimony from which reasonable
men might conclude that the petitioner was insane from
the date claimed.
Two witnesses testify as to the petitioner's mental
irresponsibility while he was in France. The most
striking incident in this testimony is the account of his
complete breakdown while on guard duty as a result of
which he falsely alarmed his military unit by screaming
that the [319 U.S. 409] Germans were coming when they
were not and was silenced only by being forceably
bound and gagged. There was also other evidence that
Galloway became nervous, irritable, quarrelsome and
turbulent after he got to France. The Court disposes of
this testimony, which obviously indicates some degree
of mental unbalance, by saying no more than that it
"does not prove he was insane." No reason is given, nor
can I imagine any, why a jury should not be entitled to
consider this evidence and draw its own conclusions.
The testimony of another witness, O'Neill, was offered
to show that the witness had known the petitioner both
before and after the war, and that after the war the
witness found the petitioner a changed man; that the
petitioner imagined that he was being persecuted; and
that the petitioner suffered from fits of melancholia,
depression and weeping. If O'Neill's testimony is to be
believed, the petitioner suffered the typical symptoms of
a schizophreniac for some years after his return to this
country; therefore if O'Neill's testimony is believed,
there can be no reasonable doubt about the right of a
jury to pass on this case. The Court analyzes O'Neill's
testimony for internal consistency, criticizes his failure
to remember the details of his association with the
petitioner fifteen years before his appearance in this
case, and concludes that O'Neill's evidence shows no
more than that "petitioner was subject to alternating
periods of gaiety and depression for some indefinite
period." This extreme emotional instability is an
accepted symptom of the disease from which the
petitioner suffers. If he exhibited the same symptoms in
1922, it is, at the minimum, probable that the condition
has been continuous since an origin during the war.
O'Neill's testimony coupled with the petitioner's present
condition presents precisely the type of question which
a jury should resolve.
[319 U.S. 410] The petitioner was in the Navy for six
months in 1920, until he was discharged for bad
conduct; and later was in the Army during 1921 and a
part of 1922, until he deserted. The testimony of his
Commanding Officer while he was in the Army, Col.
Matthews, is that the petitioner had "periods of gaiety
and exhilaration" and was then "depressed as if he had
had a hangover"; that petitioner tried to create
disturbances and dissatisfy the men; that he suffered
from a belief that he was being treated unfairly; and that
generally his actions "were not those of a normal man."
The Colonel was not a doctor and might well not have
recognized insanity had he seen it; as it was, he
concluded that the petitioner was an alcoholic and a
narcotic addict. However, the officer was unable, upon
repeated investigations, to discover any actual use of
narcotics. A jury fitting this information into the general
pattern of the testimony might well have been driven to
the conclusion that the petitioner was insane at the time
the Colonel had him under observation.
All of this evidence, if believed, showed a man, healthy
and normal before he went to the war, suffering for
several years after he came back from a disease which
had the symptoms attributed to schizophrenia and who
was insane from 1930 until his trial. Under these
circumstances, I think that the physician's testimony of
total and permanent disability by reason of continuous
insanity from 1918 to 1938 was reasonable. The fact that
there was no direct testimony for a period of five years,
while it might be the basis of fair argument to the jury
by the Government, does not, as the Court seems to
believe, create a presumption against the petitioner so
strong that his case must be excluded from the jury
entirely. Even if during these five years the petitioner
was spasmodically employed, we could not conclude that
he was not totally and permanently disabled. Berry v.
United States, 312 U.S. 450, 455. It is not doubted that
[319 U.S. 411] schizophrenia is permanent even though
there may be a momentary appearance of recovery.
The court below concluded that the petitioner's
admission into the military service between 1920 and
1923 showed conclusively that he was not totally and
permanently disabled. Any inference which may be
created by the petitioner's admission into the Army and
the Navy is more than met by his record of courtmartial,
dishonorable discharge, and desertion, as well as
by the explicit testimony of his Commanding Officer,
Colonel Matthews.
This case graphically illustrates the injustice resulting
from permitting judges to direct verdicts instead of
requiring them to await a jury decision and then, if
necessary, allow a new trial. The chief reason given for
approving a directed verdict against this petitioner is
that no evidence except expert medical testimony was
offered for a five to eight year period. Perhaps, now that
the petitioner knows he has insufficient evidence to
satisfy a judge even though he may have enough to
satisfy a jury, he would be able to fill this time gap to
meet any judge's demand. If a court would point out on
a motion for new trial that the evidence as to this
particular period was too weak, the petitioner would be
given an opportunity to buttress the physician's
evidence. If, as the Court believes, insufficient evidence
has been offered to sustain a jury verdict for the
petitioner, we should at least authorize a new trial. Cf.
Garrison v. United States, 62 F.2d 41, 42.
I believe that there is a reasonable difference of opinion
as to whether the petitioner was totally and permanently
disabled by reason of insanity on May 31, 1919, and that
his case therefore should have been allowed to go to the
jury. The testimony of fellow soldiers, friends,
supervisors, and of a medical expert whose integrity and
ability is not challenged cannot be rejected by any
process available to me as a judge.