In Russell v. Todd, 309 U.S. 280, 294, we had "no
occasion to consider the extent to which federal courts,
in the exercise of the authority conferred upon them by
Congress to administer equitable remedies, are bound to
follow state statutes and decisions affecting those
remedies." The [326 U.S. 100] question thus carefully left
open in Russell v. Todd is now before us. It arises under
the following circumstances.
In May, 1930, Van Sweringen Corporation issued notes
to the amount of $30,000,000. Under an indenture of
the same date, petitioner, Guaranty Trust Co., was
named trustee with power and obligations to enforce
the rights of the noteholders in the assets of the
Corporation and of the Van Sweringen brothers. In
October, 1930, petitioner, with other banks, made large
advances to companies affiliated with the Corporation
and wholly controlled by the Van Sweringens. In
October, 1931, when it was apparent that the
Corporation could not meet its obligations, Guaranty
cooperated in a plan for the purchase of the outstanding
notes on the basis of cash for 50% of the face value of the
notes and twenty shares of Van Sweringen
Corporation's stock for each $1,000 note. This exchange
offer remained open until December 15, 1931.
Respondent York received $6,000 of the notes as a gift
in 1934, her donor not having accepted the offer of
exchange. In April, 1940, three accepting noteholders
began suit against petitioner, charging fraud and
misrepresentation. Respondent's application to
intervene in that suit was denied, 117 F.2d 95, and
summary judgment in favor of Guaranty was affirmed.
Hackner v. Morgan, 130 F.2d 300. After her dismissal
from the Hackner litigation, respondent, on January 22,
1942, began the present proceedings.
The suit, instituted as a class action on behalf of nonaccepting
noteholders and brought in a federal court
solely because of diversity of citizenship, is based on an
alleged breach of trust by Guaranty in that it failed to
protect the interests of the noteholders in assenting to
the exchange offer and failed to disclose its self-interest
when sponsoring the offer. Petitioner moved for
summary judgment, which was granted, upon the
authority of the Hackner case. On appeal, the Circuit
Court of Appeals, one Judge dissenting, [326 U.S. 101]
found that the Hackner decision did not foreclose this
suit, and held that in a suit brought on the equity side of
a federal district court that court is not required to apply
the State statute of limitations that would govern like
suits in the courts of a State where the federal court is
sitting even though the exclusive basis of federal
jurisdiction is diversity of citizenship. 143 F.2d 503. The
importance of the question for the disposition of
litigation in the federal courts led us to bring the case
here. 323 U.S. 693.
In view of the basis of the decision below, it is not for us
to consider whether the New York statute would
actually bar this suit were it brought in a State court.
Our only concern is with the holding that the federal
courts in a suit like this are not bound by local law.
We put to one side the considerations relevant in
disposing of questions that arise when a federal court is
adjudicating a claim based on a federal law. See, for
instance, Board of Comm'rs v. United States, 308 U.S.
343; Deitrick v. Greaney, 309 U.S. 190; D'Oench,
Duhme & Co. v. F.D.I.C., 315 U.S. 447; Clearfield Trust
Co. v. United States, 318 U.S. 363; O'Brien v. Western
Union Telegraph Co., 113 F.2d 539. Our problem only
touches transactions for which rights and obligations are
created by one of the States, and for the assertion of
which, in case of diversity of the citizenship of the
parties, Congress has made a federal court another
available forum.
Our starting point must be the policy of federal
jurisdiction which Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64,
embodies. In overruling Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, Erie
R. Co. v. Tompkins did not merely overrule a venerable
case. It overruled a particular way of looking at law
which dominated the judicial process long after its
inadequacies had been laid bare. See, e. g., Field, J.,
dissenting in Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Baugh, 149
U.S. 368, 391; Holmes, J., dissenting in Kuhn v.
Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U.S. 349, 370,[326 U.S. 102] and
in Black & White Taxi. Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxi.
Co., 276 U.S. 518, 532; Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, supra
at 73, note 6. Law was conceived as a "brooding
omnipresence" of Reason, of which decisions were
merely evidence and not themselves the controlling
formulations. Accordingly, federal courts deemed
themselves free to ascertain what Reason, and therefore
Law, required wholly independent of authoritatively
declared State law, even in cases where a legal right as
the basis for relief was created by State authority and
could not be created by federal authority and the case
got into a federal court merely because it was "between
Citizens of different States" under Art. III, § 2 of the
Constitution of the United States.
This impulse to freedom from the rules that controlled
State courts regarding State-created rights was so
strongly rooted in the prevailing views concerning the
nature of law, that the federal courts almost
imperceptibly were led to mutilating construction even
of the explicit command given to them by Congress to
apply State law in cases purporting to enforce the law of
a State. See § 34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 73,
92. The matter was fairly summarized by the statement
that "During the period when Swift v. Tyson (1842-
1938) ruled the decisions of the federal courts, its theory
of their freedom in matters of general law from the
authority of state courts pervaded opinions of this Court
involving even state statutes or local law." Vandenbark
v. Owens-Illinois Co., 311 U.S. 538, 540.
In relation to the problem now here, the real
significance of Swift v. Tyson lies in the fact that it did
not enunciate novel doctrine. Nor was it restricted to its
particular situation. It summed up prior attitudes and
expressions in cases that had come before this Court and
lower federal courts for at least thirty years, at law as
well as in equity.1 [326 U.S. 103] The short of it is that
the doctrine was congenial to the jurisprudential climate
of the time. Once established, judicial momentum kept it
going. Since it was conceived that there was "a
transcendental body of law outside of any particular
State but obligatory within it unless and until changed
by statute," 276 U.S. 518, 532, 533, State court decisions
were not "the law" but merely someone's opinion — to
be sure an opinion to be respected — concerning the
content of this all-pervading law. Not unnaturally, the
federal courts assumed power to find for themselves the
content of such a body of law. The notion was
stimulated by the attractive vision of a uniform body of
federal law. To such sentiments for uniformity of
decision and freedom from diversity in State law the
federal courts gave currency, particularly in cases where
equitable remedies were sought, because equitable
doctrines are so often cast in terms of universal
applicability when close analysis of the source of legal
enforceability is not demanded.
In exercising their jurisdiction on the ground of
diversity of citizenship, the federal courts, in the long
course of their history, have not differentiated in their
regard for State law between actions at law and suits in
equity. Although § 34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1
Stat. 73, 92, 28 U.S.C. § 725, directed that the "laws of
the several states . . . shall be regarded as rules of
decision in trials at common law . . .," this was deemed,
consistently for over a hundred years, to be merely
declaratory of what would in [326 U.S. 104] any event
have governed the federal courts and therefore was
equally applicable to equity suits.2 See Hawkins v.
Barney's Lessee, 5 Pet. 457, 464; Mason v. United States,
260 U.S. 545, 559; Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, supra at 72.
Indeed, it may fairly be said that the federal courts gave
greater respect to State-created "substantive rights,"
Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U.S. 491, 498, in
equity than they gave them on the law side, because
rights at law were usually declared by State courts and as
such increasingly flouted by extension of the doctrine of
Swift v. Tyson, while rights in equity were frequently
defined by legislative enactment and as such known and
respected by the federal courts. See, e.g., Clark v. Smith,
13 Pet. 195; Scott v. Neely, 140 U.S. 106; Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Western Union Co., 234 U.S. 369,
374-76; Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, supra at 498.
Partly because the States in the early days varied greatly
in the manner in which equitable relief was afforded and
in the extent to which it was available, see, e.g., Fisher,
The Administration of Equity Through Common Law
Forms (1885) 1 L.Q. Rev. 455; Woodruff, Chancery in
Massachusetts (1889) 5 L.Q. Rev. 370; Laussat, Essay on
Equity in Pennsylvania (1826), Congress provided that
"the forms and modes of proceeding in suits . . . of
equity" [326 U.S. 105] would conform to the settled uses
of courts of equity. § 2, 1 Stat. 275, 276, 28 U.S.C. § 723.
But this enactment gave the federal courts no power
that they would not have had in any event when courts
were given "cognizance," by the first Judiciary Act, of
suits "in equity." From the beginning there has been a
good deal of talk in the cases that federal equity is a
separate legal system. And so it is, properly understood.
The suits in equity of which the federal courts have had
"cognizance" ever since 1789 constituted the body of law
which had been transplanted to this country from the
English Court of Chancery. But this system of equity
"derived its doctrines, as well as its powers, from its
mode of giving relief." Langdell, Summary of Equity
Pleading (1877) xxvii. In giving federal courts
"cognizance" of equity suits in cases of diversity
jurisdiction, Congress never gave, nor did the federal
courts ever claim, the power to deny substantive rights
created State law or to create substantive rights denied
by State law.
This does not mean that whatever equitable remedy is
available in a State court must be available in a diversity
suit in a federal court, or conversely, that a federal court
may not afford an equitable remedy not available in a
State court. Equitable relief in a federal court is of course
subject to restrictions: the suit must be within the
traditional scope of equity as historically evolved in the
English Court of Chancery, Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425,
430; Atlas Ins. Co. v. Southern, Inc., 306 U.S. 563, 568;
Sprague v. Ticonic Bank, 307 U.S. 161, 164-165; a plain,
adequate and complete remedy at law must be wanting,
§ 16, 1 Stat. 73, 82, 28 U.S.C. § 384; explicit
Congressional curtailment of equity powers must be
respected, see, e.g., Norris-LaGuardia Act, 47 Stat. 70,
29 U.S.C. § 101 et seq.; the constitutional right to trial
by jury cannot be evaded, Whitehead v. Shattuck, 138
U.S. 146. That a State may authorize its courts to give
equitable relief unhampered [326 U.S. 106] by any or all
such restrictions cannot remove these fetters from the
federal courts. See Clark v. Smith, supra at 203;
Broderick's Will, 21 Wall. 503, 519-20; Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Western Union Co., supra at 376;
Henrietta Mills v. Rutherford Co., 281 U.S. 121, 127-28;
Atlas Ins. Co. v. Southern, Inc., supra at 568-70. State
law cannot define the remedies which a federal court
must give simply because a federal court in diversity
jurisdiction is available as an alternative tribunal to the
State's courts.3 Contrariwise, a federal court may afford
an equitable remedy for a substantive right recognized
by a State even though a State court cannot give it.
Whatever contradiction or confusion may be produced
by a medley of judicial phrases severed from their
environment, the body of adjudications concerning
equitable relief in diversity cases leaves no doubt that
the federal courts enforced State-created substantive
rights if the mode of proceeding and remedy were
consonant with the traditional body of equitable
remedies, practice and procedure, and in so doing [326
U.S. 107] they were enforcing rights created by the
States and not arising under any inherent or statutory
federal law.4
Inevitably, therefore, the principle of Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins, an action at law, was promptly applied to a
suit in equity. Ruhlin v. N.Y. Life Ins. Co., 304 U.S. 202.
And so this case reduces itself to the narrow question
whether, when no recovery could be had in a State court
because the action is barred by the statute of limitations,
a federal court in equity can take cognizance of the suit
because there is diversity of citizenship between the
parties. Is the outlawry, according to State law, of a
claim created by the States a matter of "substantive
rights" to be respected by a federal court of equity when
that court's jurisdiction is dependent on the fact that
there is a State-created [326 U.S. 108] right, or is such
statute of "a mere remedial character," Henrietta Mills v.
Rutherford Co., supra at 128, which a federal court may
disregard?
Matters of "substance" and matters of "procedure" are
much talked about in the books as though they defined a
great divide cutting across the whole domain of law.
But, of course, "substance" and "procedure" are the same
key-words to very different problems. Neither
"substance" nor "procedure" represents the same
invariants. Each implies different variables depending
upon the particular problem for which it is used. See
Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, 281 U.S. 397, 409. And the
different problems are only distantly related at best, for
the terms are in common use in connection with
situations turning on such different considerations as
those that are relevant to questions pertaining to ex post
facto legislation, the impairment of the obligations of
contract, the enforcement of federal rights in the State
courts and the multitudinous phases of the conflict of
laws. See, e.g., American Railway Express Co. v. Levee,
263 U.S. 19, 21; Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U.S. 22, 24-25;
Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh, 295 U.S. 56, 60; Garrett v.
Moore-McCormack Co., 317 U.S. 239, 248-49; and see
Tunks, Categorization and Federalism: "Substance" and
"Procedure" After Erie Railroad v. Tompkins (1939) 34
Ill. L. Rev. 271, 274-276; Cook, Logical and Legal Bases
of Conflict of Laws (1942) 163-165.
Here we are dealing with a right to recover derived not
from the United States but from one of the States.
When, because the plaintiff happens to be a nonresident,
such a right is enforceable in a federal as well as
in a State court, the forms and mode of enforcing the
right may at times, naturally enough, vary because the
two judicial systems are not identic. But since a federal
court adjudicating a State-created right solely because of
the diversity of citizenship of the parties is for that
purpose, in effect, only another court of the State, it
cannot afford recovery [326 U.S. 109] if the right to
recover is made unavailable by the State nor can it
substantially affect the enforcement of the right as given
by the State.
And so the question is not whether a statute of
limitations is deemed a matter of "procedure" in some
sense. The question is whether such a statute concerns
merely the manner and the means by which a right to
recover, as recognized by the State, is enforced, or
whether such statutory limitation is a matter of
substance in the aspect that alone is relevant to our
problem, namely, does it significantly affect the result of
a litigation for a federal court to disregard a law of a
State that would be controlling in an action upon the
same claim by the same parties in a State court?
It is therefore immaterial whether statutes of limitation
are characterized either as "substantive" or "procedural"
in State court opinions in any use of those terms
unrelated to the specific issue before us. Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins was not an endeavor to formulate scientific
legal terminology. It expressed a policy that touches
vitally the proper distribution of judicial power between
State and federal courts. In essence, the intent of that
decision was to insure that, in all cases where a federal
court is exercising jurisdiction solely because of the
diversity of citizenship of the parties, the outcome of the
litigation in the federal court should be substantially the
same, so far as legal rules determine the outcome of a
litigation, as it would be if tried in a State court. The
nub of the policy that underlies Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins
is that for the same transaction the accident of a suit by a
non-resident litigant in a federal court instead of in a
State court a block away should not lead to a
substantially different result. And so, putting to one side
abstractions regarding "substance" and "procedure," we
have held that in diversity cases the federal courts must
follow the law of the State as to burden of proof, Cities
Service Co. v. Dunlap, 308 U.S. 208, as to conflict of
laws, Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Co., 313 U.S. 487,[326 U.S.
110] as to contributory negligence, Palmer v. Hoffman,
318 U.S. 109, 117. And see Sampson v. Channell, 110
F.2d 754. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins has been applied with
an eye alert to essentials in avoiding disregard of State
law in diversity cases in the federal courts. A policy so
important to our federalism must be kept free from
entanglements with analytical or terminological niceties.
Plainly enough, a statute that would completely bar
recovery in a suit if brought in a State court bears on a
State-created right vitally and not merely formally or
negligibly. As to consequences that so intimately affect
recovery or non-recovery a federal court in a diversity
case should follow State law. See Morgan, Choice of
Law Governing Proof (1944) 58 Harv. L. Rev. 153, 155-
158. The fact that under New York law a statute of
limitations might be lengthened or shortened, that a
security may be foreclosed though the debt be barred,
that a barred debt may be used as a set-off, are all
matters of local law properly to be respected by federal
courts sitting in New York when their incidence comes
into play there.5 Such particular rules of local law,
however, do not in the slightest change the crucial
consideration that if a plea of the statute of limitations
would bar recovery in a State court, a federal court
ought not to afford recovery.
Prior to Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins it was not necessary, as
we have indicated, to make the critical analysis required
by the doctrine of that case of the nature of jurisdiction
of the federal courts in diversity cases. But even before
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, federal courts relied on
statutes of limitations of the States in which they sat. In
suits at [326 U.S. 111] law State limitations statutes were
held to be "rules of decision" within § 34 of the Judiciary
Act of 1789 and as such applied in "trials at common
law." M'Cluny v. Sullivan, 3 Pet. 270; Bank of Alabama
v. Dalton, 9 How. 522; Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black
599; Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U.S. 647. While there was
talk of freedom of equity from such State statutes of
limitations, the cases generally refused recovery where
suit was barred in a like situation in the State courts,
even if only by way of analogy. See, e.g., Godden v.
Kimmell, 99 U.S. 201; Alsop v. Riker, 155 U.S. 448;
Benedict v. City of New York, 250 U.S. 321, 327-328.
However in Kirby v. Lake Shore & M.S.R. Co., 120 U.S.
130, the Court disregarded a State statute of limitations
where the Court deemed it inequitable to apply it.
To make an exception to Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins on
the equity side of a federal court is to reject the
considerations of policy which, after long travail, led to
that decision. Judge Augustus N. Hand thus summarized
below the fatal objection to such inroad upon Erie R.
Co. v. Tompkins: "In my opinion it would be a
mischievous practice to disregard state statutes of
limitation whenever federal courts think that the result
of adopting them may be inequitable. Such procedure
would promote the choice of United States rather than
of state courts in order to gain the advantage of different
laws. The main foundation for the criticism of Swift v.
Tyson was that a litigant in cases where federal
jurisdiction is based only on diverse citizenship may
obtain a more favorable decision by suing in the United
States courts." 143 F.2d 503, 529, 531.
Diversity jurisdiction is founded on assurance to nonresident
litigants of courts free from susceptibility to
potential local bias. The Framers of the Constitution,
according to Marshall, entertained "apprehensions" lest
distant suitors be subjected to local bias in State courts,
or, at least, viewed with "indulgence the possible fears
and apprehensions" of such suitors. Bank of the United
States v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch 61, 87.[326 U.S. 112] And so
Congress afforded out-of-State litigants another
tribunal, not another body of law. The operation of a
double system of conflicting laws in the same State is
plainly hostile to the reign of law. Certainly, the
fortuitous circumstance of residence out of a State of
one of the parties to a litigation ought not to give rise to
a discrimination against others equally concerned but
locally resident. The source of substantive rights
enforced by a federal court under diversity jurisdiction,
it cannot be said too often, is the law of the States.
Whenever that law is authoritatively declared by a State,
whether its voice be the legislature or its highest court,
such law ought to govern in litigation founded on that
law, whether the forum of application is a State or a
federal court and whether the remedies be sought at law
or may be had in equity.
Dicta may be cited characterizing equity as an
independent body of law. To the extent that we have
indicated, it is. But insofar as these general observations
go beyond that, they merely reflect notions that have
been replaced by a sharper analysis of what federal
courts do when they enforce rights that have no federal
origin. And so, before the true source of law that is
applied by the federal courts under diversity jurisdiction
was fully explored, some things were said that would
not now be said. But nothing that was decided, unless it
be the Kirby case, needs to be rejected.
The judgment is reversed and the case is remanded for
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
So ordered.