Congress, pursuant to its constitutional power to
regulate commerce, has expressly provided that a State
shall not be prohibited from levying the kind of
unemployment compensation tax here challenged. 26
U.S.C. 1600. We have twice decided that this
Congressional consent is an adequate answer to a claim
that imposition of the tax violates the Commerce
Clause. Perkins v. Pennsylvania, 314 U.S. 586, affirming
342 Pa. 529; Standard Dredging Corp. v. Murphy, 319
U.S. 306, 308. Two determinations by this Court of an
issue so palpably without merit are sufficient.
Consequently that part of this appeal which again seeks
to raise the question seems so patently frivolous as to
make the case a fit candidate for dismissal. Fay v. Crozer,
217 U.S. 455. Nor is the further ground advanced on
this appeal, that the State of Washington has denied
appellant due process of law, any less devoid of
substance. It is my view, therefore, that we should
dismiss the appeal as unsubstantial,1 Seaboard Air Line
R. Co. v. Watson, 287 U.S. 86, 90, 92, and decline the
invitation to formulate broad rules as to the meaning of
due process, which here would amount to deciding a
constitutional question "in advance of the necessity for
its decision." Federation of Labor v. McAdory, 325 U.S.
450, 461.
[326 U.S. 323] Certainly appellant cannot in the light of
our past decisions meritoriously claim that notice by
registered mail and by personal service on its sales
solicitors in Washington did not meet the requirements
of procedural due process. And the due process clause is
not brought in issue any more by appellant's further
conceptualistic contention that Washington could not
levy a tax or bring suit against the corporation because it
did not honor that State with its mystical "presence."
For it is unthinkable that the vague due process clause
was ever intended to prohibit a State from regulating or
taxing a business carried on within its boundaries simply
because this is done by agents of a corporation
organized and having its headquarters elsewhere. To
read this into the due process clause would in fact result
in depriving a State's citizens of due process by taking
from the State the power to protect them in their
business dealings within its boundaries with
representatives of a foreign corporation. Nothing could
be more irrational or more designed to defeat the
function of our federative system of government.
Certainly a State, at the very least, has power to tax and
sue those dealing with its citizens within its boundaries,
as we have held before. Hoopeston Canning Co. v.
Cullen, 318 U.S. 313. Were the Court to follow this
principle, it would provide a workable standard for cases
where, as here, no other questions are involved. The
Court has not chosen to do so, but instead has engaged
in an unnecessary discussion in the course of which it
has announced vague Constitutional criteria applied for
the first time to the issue before us. It has thus
introduced uncertain elements confusing the simple
pattern and tending to curtail the exercise of State
powers to an extent not justified by the Constitution.
The criteria adopted insofar as they can be identified
read as follows: Due Process does permit State courts to
"enforce the obligations which appellant has incurred" if
[326 U.S. 324] it be found "reasonable and just according
to our traditional conception of fair play and substantial
justice." And this in turn means that we will "permit"
the State to act if upon "an `estimate of the
inconveniences' which would result to the corporation
from a trial away from its `home' or principal place of
business," we conclude that it is "reasonable" to subject it
to suit in a State where it is doing business.
It is true that this Court did use the terms "fair play" and
"substantial justice" in explaining the philosophy
underlying the holding that it could not be "due process
of law" to render a personal judgment against a
defendant without notice and an opportunity to be
heard. Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U.S. 457. In McDonald v.
Mabee, 243 U.S. 90, 91, cited in the Milliken case, Mr.
Justice Holmes, speaking for the Court, warned against
judicial curtailment of this opportunity to be heard and
referred to such a curtailment as a denial of "fair play,"
which even the common law would have deemed
"contrary to natural justice." And previous cases had
indicated that the ancient rule against judgments
without notice had stemmed from "natural justice"
concepts. These cases, while giving additional reasons
why notice under particular circumstances is inadequate,
did not mean thereby that all legislative enactments
which this Court might deem to be contrary to natural
justice ought to be held invalid under the due process
clause. None of the cases purport to support or could
support a holding that a State can tax and sue
corporations only if its action comports with this
Court's notions of "natural justice." I should have
thought the Tenth Amendment settled that.
I believe that the Federal Constitution leaves to each
State, without any "ifs" or "buts," a power to tax and to
open the doors of its courts for its citizens to sue
corporations whose agents do business in those States.
Believing that the Constitution gave the States that
power, I think it a judicial deprivation to condition its
exercise upon this [326 U.S. 325] Court's notion of "fair
play," however appealing that term may be. Nor can I
stretch the meaning of due process so far as to authorize
this Court to deprive a State of the right to afford
judicial protection to its citizens on the ground that it
would be more "convenient" for the corporation to be
sued somewhere else.
There is a strong emotional appeal in the words "fair
play," "justice," and "reasonableness." But they were not
chosen by those who wrote the original Constitution or
the Fourteenth Amendment as a measuring rod for this
Court to use in invalidating State or Federal laws passed
by elected legislative representatives. No one, not even
those who most feared a democratic government, ever
formally proposed that courts should be given power to
invalidate legislation under any such elastic standards.
Express prohibitions against certain types of legislation
are found in the Constitution, and under the longsettled
practice, courts invalidate laws found to conflict
with them. This requires interpretation, and
interpretation, it is true, may result in extension of the
Constitution's purpose. But that is no reason for reading
the due process clause so as to restrict a State's power to
tax and sue those whose activities affect persons and
businesses within the State, provided proper service can
be had. Superimposing the natural justice concept on the
Constitution's specific prohibitions could operate as a
drastic abridgment of democratic safeguards they
embody, such as freedom of speech, press and religion,2
and the right to counsel. This [326 U.S. 326] has already
happened. Betts v. Brady, 316 U.S. 455. Compare
Feldman v. United States, 322 U.S. 487, 494-503. For
application of this natural law concept, whether under
the terms "reasonableness," "justice," or "fair play,"
makes judges the supreme arbiters of the country's laws
and practices. Polk Co. v. Glover, 305 U.S. 5, 17-18;
Federal Power Commission v. Natural Gas Pipeline Co.,
315 U.S. 575, 600, n. 4. This result, I believe, alters the
form of government our Constitution provides. I cannot
agree.
True, the State's power is here upheld. But the rule
announced means that tomorrow's judgment may strike
down a State or Federal enactment on the ground that it
does not conform to this Court's idea of natural justice. I
therefore find myself moved by the same fears that
caused Mr. Justice Holmes to say in 1930:
"I have not yet adequately expressed the more than
anxiety that I feel at the ever increasing scope given to
the Fourteenth Amendment in cutting down what I
believe to be the constitutional rights of the States. As
the decisions now stand, I see hardly any limit but the
sky to the invalidating of those rights if they happen to
strike a majority of this Court as for any reason
undesirable." Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U.S. 586, 595.