I dissent. If the policy of judicial conservatism were to be
followed in this case, which forbids deciding
constitutional [326 U.S. 113] and other important
questions hypothetically or prematurely, I would favor
remanding the cause to the Court of Appeals for
determination of the narrow and comparatively minor
question whether, under the applicable local law, the
cause of action has been barred by lapse of time. That
question has not been decided,1 may be determined in
respondent's favor, and in that event the important
question affecting federal judicial power now resolved,
in a manner contrary to all prior decision here, will have
been determined without substantial ultimate effect
upon the litigation.2
But the Court conceives itself confronted with the
necessity for making that determination and in doing so
overturns a rule of decision which has prevailed in the
federal courts from almost the beginning. I am unable to
assent to that decision, for reasons stated by the Court of
Appeals3 and others to be mentioned only briefly. One
may give full adherence to the rule of Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64, and its extension to cases in
equity in so far as they affect clearly substantive rights,
without conceding or assuming that the long tradition,
both federal and state, which regards statutes of
limitations as falling within the category of remedial
rather than substantive law, necessarily must be ruled in
the same way; and without conceding further that only a
different jurisprudential climate or a kind of "brooding
omnipresence in the sky" [326 U.S. 114] has dictated the
hitherto unvaried policy of the federal courts in their
general attitude toward the strict application of local
statutes of limitations in equity causes.
If any characteristic of equity jurisprudence has
descended unbrokenly from and within "the traditional
scope of equity as historically evolved in the English
Court of Chancery," it is that statutes of limitations,
often in terms applying only to actions at law, have
never been deemed to be rigidly applicable as absolute
barriers to suits in equity as they are to actions at law.4
That tradition, it would seem, should be regarded as
having been incorporated in the various Acts of
Congress which have conferred equity jurisdiction upon
the federal courts. So incorporated, it has been
reaffirmed repeatedly by the decisions of this and other
courts.5 It is now excised from those Acts. If there is to
be excision, Congress, not this Court, should make it.
Moreover, the decision of today does not in so many
words rule that Congress could not authorize the federal
courts to administer equitable relief in accordance with
the substantive rights of the parties, notwithstanding
state courts had been forbidden by local statutes of
limitations to do so. Nevertheless the implication to that
effect seems strong, in view of the reliance upon Erie R.
Co. v. Tompkins.6 In any event, the question looms
more largely in the issues than the Court's opinion
appears to [326 U.S. 115] make it. For if legislative
acquiescence in long-established judicial construction
can make it part of a statute, it has done so in this
instance. More is at stake in the implications of the
decision, if not in the words of the opinion, than simply
bringing federal and local law into accord upon matters
clearly and exclusively within the constitutional power
of the state to determine. It is one thing to require that
kind of an accord in diversity cases when the question is
merely whether the federal court must follow the law of
the state as to burden of proof, Cities Service Co. v.
Dunlap, 308 U.S. 208; contributory negligence, Palmer
v. Hoffman, 318 U.S. 109, 117; or perhaps in application
of the so-called parol evidence rule. These ordinarily
involve matters of substantive law, though nominated in
terms of procedure. But in some instances their
application may lie along the border between procedure
or remedy and substance, where the one may or may not
be in fact but another name for the other. It is exactly in
this borderland, where procedural or remedial rights
may or may not have the effect of determining the
substantive ones completely, that caution is required in
extending the rule of the Erie case by the very rule itself.
The words "substantive" and "procedural" or "remedial"
are not talismanic. Merely calling a legal question by one
or the other does not resolve it otherwise than as a
purely authoritarian performance. But they have come
to designate in a broad way large and distinctive legal
domains within the greater one of the law and to mark,
though often indistinctly or with overlapping limits,
many divides between such regions.
One of these historically has been the divide between
the substantive law and the procedural or remedial law
to be applied by the federal courts in diversity cases, a
division sharpened but not wiped out by Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins and subsequent decisions extending the scope
[326 U.S. 116] of its ruling. The large division between
adjective law and substantive law still remains, to divide
the power of Congress from that of the states and
consequently to determine the power of the federal
courts to apply federal law or state law in diversity
matters.
This division, like others drawn by the broad allocation
of adjective or remedial and substantive, has areas of
admixture of these two aspects of the law. In these areas
whether a particular situation or issue presents one
aspect or the other depends upon how one looks at the
matter. As form cannot always be separated from
substance in a work of art, so adjective or remedial
aspects cannot be parted entirely from substantive ones
in these borderland regions.
Whenever this integration or admixture prevails in a
substantial measure, so that a clean break cannot be
made, there is danger either of nullifying the power of
Congress to control not only how the federal courts may
act, but what they may do by way of affording remedies,
or of usurping that function, if the Erie doctrine is to be
expanded judicially to include such situations to the
utmost extent.
It may be true that if the matter were wholly fresh the
barring of rights in equity by statutes of limitation
would seem to partake more of the substantive than of
the remedial phase of law. But the matter is not fresh
and it is not without room for debate. A long tradition,
in the states and here, as well as in the common law
which antedated both state and federal law, has
emphasized the remedial character of statutes of
limitations, more especially in application to equity
causes, on many kinds of issues requiring differentiation
of such matters from more clearly and exclusively
substantive ones. We have recently reaffirmed the
distinction in relation to the power of a state to change
its laws with retroactive effect, giving renewed vigor if
not new life to Campbell v. Holt, 115 U.S. 620. [326 U.S.
117] Chase Securities Corp. v. Donaldson, 325 U.S. 304.
Similar, though of course not identical, arguments were
advanced in that case to bring about departure from the
long-established rule, but without success. The tradition
now in question is equally long and unvaried. I cannot
say the tradition is clearly wrong in this case more than
in that. Nor can I say, as was said in the Erie case, that
the matter is beyond the power of Congress to control.
If that be conceded, I think Congress should make the
change if it is to be made. The Erie decision was
rendered in 1938. Seven years have passed without
action by Congress to extend the rule to these matters.
That is long enough to justify the conclusion that
Congress also regards them as not governed by Erie and
as wishing to make no change. This should be reason
enough for leaving the matter at rest until it decides to
act.
Finally, this case arises from what are in fact if not in
law interstate transactions.7 It involves the rights of
security holders in relation to securities which were
distributed not in New York or Ohio alone but widely
throughout the country. They are the kind of rights
which Congress acted to safeguard when it adopted the
Securities and Exchange legislation.8 Specific provisions
of that legislation are not involved in this litigation. The
broad policies underlying it may be involved or affected,
[326 U.S. 118] namely, by the existence of adequate
federal remedies, whether judicial or legislative, for the
protection of security holders against the misconduct of
issuers or against the breach of rights by trustees. Even
though the basic rights may be controlled by state law,
in such situations the question is often a difficult one
whether the law of one state or another applies; and this
is true not only of rights clearly substantive but also of
those variously characterized as procedural or remedial
and substantive which involve the application of statutes
of limitations.
Applicable statutes of limitations in state tribunals are
not always the ones which would apply if suit were
instituted in the courts of the state which creates the
substantive rights for which enforcement is sought. The
state of the forum is free to apply its own period of
limitations, regardless of whether the state originating
the right has barred suit upon it.9 Whether or not the
action will be held to be barred depends therefore not
upon the law of the state which creates the substantive
right, but upon the law of the state where suit may be
brought. This in turn will depend upon where it may be
possible to secure service of process, and thus
jurisdiction of the person of the defendant. It may be
therefore that because of the plaintiff's inability to find
the defendant in the jurisdiction which creates his
substantive right, he will be foreclosed of remedy by the
sheer necessity of going to the haven of refuge within
which the defendant confines its "presence" for
jurisdictional purposes. The law of the latter may bar the
suit even though suit still would be allowed under the
law of the state creating the substantive right.
It is not clear whether today's decision puts it into the
power of corporate trustees, by confining their
jurisdictional "presence" to states which allow their
courts to give equitable remedies only within short
periods of time, to [326 U.S. 119] defeat the purpose and
intent of the law of the state creating the substantive
right. If so, the "right" remains alive, with full-fledged
remedy, by the law of its origin, and because
enforcement must be had in another state, which affords
refuge against it, the remedy and with it the right are
nullified. I doubt that the Constitution of the United
States requires this, or that the Judiciary Acts permit it.
A good case can be made, indeed has been made, that
the diversity jurisdiction was created to afford
protection against exactly this sort of nullifying state
legislation.10
In my judgment this furnishes added reason for leaving
any change, if one is to be made, to the judgment of
Congress. The next step may well be to say that in
applying the doctrine of laches a federal court must
surrender its own judgment and attempt to find out
what a state court sitting a block away would do with
that notoriously amorphous doctrine.