The questions are whether the United States District
Court has inherent power to dismiss a suit pursuant to
the doctrine of forum non conveniens and, if so,
whether that power was abused in this case.
The respondent-plaintiff brought this action in the
Southern District of New York, but resides at
Lynchburg, Virginia, where he operated a public
warehouse. He alleges that the petitioner-defendant, in
violation of the ordinances of Lynchburg, so carelessly
handled a delivery of gasoline to his warehouse tanks
and pumps as to cause [330 U.S. 503] an explosion and
fire which consumed the warehouse building to his
damage of $41,889.10, destroyed merchandise and
fixtures to his damage of $3,602.40, caused injury to his
business and profits of $20,038.27, and burned the
property of customers in his custody under warehousing
agreements to the extent of $300,000. He asks judgment
of $365,529.77 with costs and disbursements, and
interest from the date of the fire. The action clearly is
one in tort.
The petitioner-defendant is a corporation organized
under the laws of Pennsylvania, qualified to do business
in both Virginia and New York, and it has designated
officials of each state as agents to receive service of
process. When sued in New York, the defendant,
invoking the doctrine of forum non conveniens, claimed
that the appropriate place for trial is Virginia, where the
plaintiff lives and defendant does business, where all
events in litigation took place, where most of the
witnesses reside, and where both state and federal courts
are available to plaintiff and are able to obtain
jurisdiction of the defendant.
The case, on its merits, involves no federal question and
was brought in the United States District Court solely
because of diversity in citizenship of the parties. Because
of the character of its jurisdiction and the holdings of
and under Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64,
the District Court considered that the law of New York
as to forum non conveniens applied and that it required
the case to be left to Virginia courts.1 It therefore
dismissed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals disagreed as to the
applicability of New York law, took a restrictive view of
the application of the entire doctrine in federal courts
and, one judge dissenting, reversed.2 The case is here on
certiorari. 328 U.S. 830.
[330 U.S. 504] I.
It is conceded that the venue statutes of the United
States permitted the plaintiff to commence his action in
the Southern District of New York and empower that
court to entertain it.3 But that does not settle the
question whether it must do so. Indeed, the doctrine of
forum non conveniens can never apply if there is
absence of jurisdiction or mistake of venue.
This Court, in one form of words or another, has
repeatedly recognized the existence of the power to
decline jurisdiction in exceptional circumstances. As
formulated by Mr. Justice Brandeis, the rule is:
"Obviously, the proposition that a court having
jurisdiction must exercise it, is not universally true; else
the admiralty court could never decline jurisdiction on
the ground that the litigation is between foreigners. Nor
is it true of courts administering other systems of our
law. Courts of equity and of law also occasionally
decline, in the interest of justice, to exercise jurisdiction,
where the suit is between aliens or non-residents or
where for kindred reasons the litigation can more
appropriately be conducted in a foreign tribunal."
Canada Malting Co., Ltd., v. Paterson Steamships, Ltd.,
285 U.S. 413, 422-23.
We later expressly said that a state court "may in
appropriate cases apply the doctrine of forum non
conveniens." Broderick v. Rosner, 294 U.S. 629, 643;
Williams v. North Carolina, 317 U.S. 287, 294, n. 5.
Even where federal rights binding on state courts under
the Constitution are sought to be adjudged, this Court
has sustained state courts in a refusal to entertain a
litigation between a nonresident and a foreign
corporation or between two foreign corporations.
Douglas v. New York, N.H. & H.R.R., 279 U.S. 377;
Anglo-American Provision Co. v. Davis Provision Co.
No. 1, 191 U.S. 373.[330 U.S. 505] It has held the use of
an inappropriate forum in one case an unconstitutional
burden on interstate commerce. Davis v. Farmers Cooperative
Equity Co., 262 U.S. 312. On substantially
forum non conveniens grounds we have required
federal courts to relinquish decision of cases within their
jurisdiction where the court would have to participate in
the administrative policy of a state. Railroad
Commission v. Rowan & Nichols Oil Co., 311 U.S. 570;
Burford v. Sun Oil Co., 319 U.S. 315; but cf. Meredith v.
Winter Haven, 320 U.S. 228. And most recently we
decided Williams v. Green Bay & Western R.R. Co., 326
U.S. 549, in which the Court, without questioning the
validity of the doctrine, held it had been applied in that
case without justification.4
It is true that in cases under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act we have held that plaintiff's choice of a
forum cannot be defeated on the basis of forum non
conveniens. But this was because the special venue act
under which those cases are brought was believed to
require it. Baltimore & Ohio R.R. v. Kepner, 314 U.S.
44; Miles v. Illinois Central R.R., 315 U.S. 698. Those
decisions do not purport to modify the doctrine as to
other cases governed by the general venue statutes.
[330 U.S. 506] But the court below says that "The
Kepner case . . . warned against refusal of jurisdiction in
a particular case controlled by congressional act; here
the only difference is that congressional act, plus judicial
interpretation (under the Neirbo case), spells out the
result." 153 F.2d at 885. The Federal Employers'
Liability Act, however, which controlled decision in the
Kepner case, specifically provides where venue may be
had in any suit on a cause of action arising under that
statute. What the court below refers to as "congressional
act, plus judicial interpretation," is the general statute of
venue in diversity suits, plus our decision that it gives
the defendant "a personal privilege respecting the venue,
or place of suit, which he may assert, or may waive, at
his election," Neirbo Co. v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding
Corp., 308 U.S. 165, 168. The Federal Employers'
Liability Act, as interpreted by Kepner, increases the
number of places where the defendant may be sued and
makes him accept the plaintiff's choice. The Neirbo case
is only a declaration that if the defendant, by filing
consent to be sued, waives its privilege to be sued at its
place of residence, it may be sued in the federal courts at
the place where it has consented to be sued. But the
general venue statute plus the Neirbo interpretation do
not add up to a declaration that the court must respect
the choice of the plaintiff, no matter what the type of
suit or issues involved. The two taken together mean
only that the defendant may consent to be sued, and it is
proper for the federal court to take jurisdiction, not that
the plaintiff's choice cannot be questioned. The
defendant's consent to be sued extends only to give the
court jurisdiction of the person; it assumes that the
court, having the parties before it, will apply all the
applicable law, including, in those cases where it is
appropriate, its discretionary judgment as to whether
the suit should be entertained. In all cases in which the
doctrine of forum non conveniens comes into [330 U.S.
507] play, it presupposes at least two forums in which
the defendant is amenable to process; the doctrine
furnishes criteria for choice between them.
II.
The principle of forum non conveniens is simply that a
court may resist imposition upon its jurisdiction even
when jurisdiction is authorized by the letter of a general
venue statute. These statutes are drawn with a necessary
generality and usually give a plaintiff a choice of courts,
so that he may be quite sure of some place in which to
pursue his remedy. But the open door may admit those
who seek not simply justice but perhaps justice blended
with some harassment. A plaintiff sometimes is under
temptation to resort to a strategy of forcing the trial at a
most inconvenient place for an adversary, even at some
inconvenience to himself.
Many of the states have met misuse of venue by
investing courts with a discretion to change the place of
trial on various grounds, such as the convenience of
witnesses and the ends of justice.5 The federal law
contains no such express criteria to guide the district
court in exercising its power. But the problem is a very
old one affecting the administration of the courts as well
as the rights of litigants, and both in England and in this
country the common law worked out techniques and
criteria for dealing with it.6
[330 U.S. 508] Wisely, it has not been attempted to
catalogue the circumstances which will justify or require
either grant or denial of remedy. The doctrine leaves
much to the discretion of the court to which plaintiff
resorts, and experience has not shown a judicial
tendency to renounce one's own jurisdiction so strong
as to result in many abuses.7
If the combination and weight of factors requisite to
given results are difficult to forecast or state, those to be
considered are not difficult to name. An interest to be
considered, and the one likely to be most pressed, is the
private interest of the litigant. Important considerations
are the relative ease of access to sources of proof;
availability of compulsory process for attendance of
unwilling, and the cost of obtaining attendance of
willing, witnesses; possibility of view of premises if view
would be appropriate to the action; and all other
practical problems that make trial of a case easy,
expeditious and inexpensive. There may also be
questions as to the enforcibility of a judgment if one is
obtained. The court will weigh relative advantages and
obstacles to fair trial. It is often said that the plaintiff
may not, by choice of an inconvenient forum, "vex,"
"harass," or "oppress" the defendant by inflicting upon
him expense or trouble not necessary to his own right to
pursue his remedy.8 But unless the balance is strongly in
favor of the defendant, the plaintiff's choice of forum
should rarely be disturbed.
Factors of public interest also have place in applying the
doctrine. Administrative difficulties follow for courts
when litigation is piled up in congested centers instead
of being handled at its origin. Jury duty is a burden that
ought not to be imposed upon the people of a
community [330 U.S. 509] which has no relation to the
litigation. In cases which touch the affairs of many
persons, there is reason for holding the trial in their
view and reach rather than in remote parts of the
country where they can learn of it by report only. There
is a local interest in having localized controversies
decided at home. There is an appropriateness, too, in
having the trial of a diversity case in a forum that is at
home with the state law that must govern the case,
rather than having a court in some other forum
untangle problems in conflict of laws, and in law foreign
to itself.
The law of New York as to the discretion of a court to
apply the doctrine of forum non conveniens, and as to
the standards that guide discretion is, so far as here
involved, the same as the federal rule. Murnan v.
Wabash R. Co., 246 N.Y. 244, 158 N.E. 508; Wedemann
v. United States Trust Co., 258 N.Y. 315, 179 N.E. 712;
see Gregonis v. Philadelphia and Reading Co., 235 N.Y.
152, 139 N.E. 223. It would not be profitable, therefore,
to pursue inquiry as to the source from which our rule
must flow.
III.
Turning to the question whether this is one of those
rather rare cases where the doctrine should be applied,
we look first to the interests of the litigants.
The plaintiff himself is not a resident of New York, nor
did any event connected with the case take place there,
nor does any witness, with the possible exception of
experts, live there. No one connected with that side of
the case save counsel for the plaintiff resides there, and
he has candidly told us that he was retained by insurance
companies interested presumably because of
subrogation. His affidavits and argument are devoted to
controverting claims as to defendant's inconvenience
rather than to showing that the present forum serves
any convenience [330 U.S. 510] of his own, with one
exception. The only justification for trial in New York
advanced here is one rejected by the district court and is
set forth in the brief as follows:
"This Court can readily realize that an action of this type, involving
as it does a claim for damages in an amount close to $400,000, is
one which may stagger the imagination of a local jury which is
surely unaccustomed to dealing with amounts of such a nature.
Furthermore, removed from Lynchburg, the respondent will have
an opportunity to try this case free from local influences and
preconceived notions which may make it difficult to procure a jury
which has no previous knowledge of any of the facts herein."
This unproven premise that jurors of New York live on
terms of intimacy with $400,000 transactions is not an
assumption we easily make. Nor can we assume that a
jury from Lynchburg and vicinity would be "staggered"
by contemplating the value of a warehouse building that
stood in their region, or of merchandise and fixtures
such as were used there, nor are they likely to be
staggered by the value of chattels which the people of
that neighborhood put in storage. It is a strange
argument on behalf of a Virginia plaintiff that the
community which gave him patronage to make his
business valuable is not capable of furnishing jurors who
know the value of the goods they store, the building
they are stored in, or the business their patronage
creates. And there is no specification of any local
influence, other than accurate knowledge of local
conditions, that would make a fair trial improbable. The
net of this is that we cannot say the District Court was
bound to entertain a provincial fear of the provincialism
of a Virginia jury. That leaves the Virginia plaintiff
without even a suggested reason for transporting this
suit to New York.
[330 U.S. 511] Defendant points out that not only the
plaintiff, but every person who participated in the acts
charged to be negligent, resides in or near Lynchburg. It
also claims a need to interplead an alleged independent
contractor which made the delivery of the gasoline and
which is a Virginia corporation domiciled in Lynchburg,
that it cannot interplead in New York. There also are
approximately 350 persons residing in and around
Lynchburg who stored with plaintiff the goods for the
damage to which he seeks to recover. The extent to
which they have left the community since the fire and
the number of them who will actually be needed is in
dispute. The complaint alleges that defendant's conduct
violated Lynchburg ordinances. Conditions are said to
require proof by firemen and by many others. The
learned and experienced trial judge was not unaware
that litigants generally manage to try their cases with
fewer witnesses than they predict in such motions as
this. But he was justified in concluding that this trial is
likely to be long and to involve calling many witnesses,
and that Lynchburg, some 400 miles from New York, is
the source of all proofs for either side, with possible
exception of experts. Certainly to fix the place of trial at
a point where litigants cannot compel personal
attendance and may be forced to try their cases on
deposition, is to create a condition not satisfactory to
court, jury or most litigants. Nor is it necessarily cured
by the statement of plaintiff's counsel that he will see to
getting many of the witnesses to the trial and that some
of them "would be delighted to come to New York to
testify." There may be circumstances where such a
proposal should be given weight. In others, the offer
may not turn out to be as generous as defendant or court
might suppose it to be. Such matters are for the District
Court to decide in exercise of a sound discretion.
The court likewise could well have concluded that the
task of the trial court would be simplified by trial in
Virginia. [330 U.S. 512] If trial was in a state court, it
could apply its own law to events occurring there. If in
federal court by reason of diversity of citizenship, the
court would apply the law of its own state in which it is
likely to be experienced. The course of adjudication in
New York federal court might be beset with conflict of
laws problems all avoided if the case is litigated in
Virginia where it arose.
We are convinced that the District Court did not exceed
its powers or the bounds of its discretion in dismissing
plaintiff's complaint and remitting him to the courts of
his own community. The Circuit Court of Appeals took
too restrictive a view of the doctrine as approved by this
Court. Its judgment is
Reversed.