I am in accord with the dissenting opinion of MR.
JUSTICE DOUGLAS in this case. I also agree with the
dissenting views of MR. JUSTICE JACKSON in No.
465, Woods v. [337 U.S. 558] Interstate Realty Co., ante,
p. 538, decided today. And I have noted my dissent in
No. 522, Ragan v. Merchants Transfer & Warehouse
Co., ante, p. 530, also decided today.
Without undertaking to discuss each case in detail, I
think the three decisions taken together demonstrate the
extreme extent to which the Court is going in
submitting the control of diversity litigation in the
federal courts to the states rather than to Congress,
where it properly belongs. This is done in the guise of
applying the rule of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S.
64. But in my opinion it was never the purpose of that
decision to put such matters as those involved here
outside the power of Congress to regulate and to confer
that authority exclusively upon the states.
What is being applied is a gloss on the Erie rule, not the
rule itself. That case held that federal courts in diversity
cases must apply state law, decisional as well as
statutory, in determining matters of substantive law, in
particular and apart from procedural limitations upon
its assertion — whether a cause of action exists. I accept
that view generally and insofar as it involves a wise rule
of administration for the federal courts, though I have
grave doubt that it has any solid constitutional
foundation.
But the Erie case made no ruling that in so deciding
diversity cases a federal court is "merely another court of
the state in which it sits." and hence that in every
situation in which the doors of state courts are closed to
a suitor, so must be also those of the federal courts. Not
only is this not true when the state bar is raised by a
purely procedural obstacle. There is sound historical
reason for believing that one of the purposes of the
diversity clause was to afford a federal court remedy
when, for at least some reasons of state policy, none
would be available in the state courts. It is the gloss
which has [337 U.S. 559] been put upon the Erie ruling
by later decisions, e.g., Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326
U.S. 99, which in my opinion is being applied to extend
the Erie ruling far beyond its original purpose or intent
and, in my judgment, with consequences and
implications seriously impairing Congress' power,
within its proper sphere of action, to control this type of
litigation in the federal courts.
The accepted dichotomy is the familiar "proceduralsubstantive"
one. This of course is a subject of endless
discussion, which hardly needs to be repeated here.
Suffice it to say that actually in many situations
procedure and substance are so interwoven that rational
separation becomes well-nigh impossible. But, even so,
this fact cannot dispense with the necessity of making a
distinction. For, as the matter stands, it is Congress
which has the power to govern the procedure of the
federal courts in diversity cases, and the states which
have that power over matters clearly substantive in
nature. Judges therefore cannot escape making the
division. And they must make it where the two
constituent elements are Siamese twins as well as where
they are not twins or even blood brothers. The real
question is not whether the separation shall be made,
but how it shall be made: whether mechanically by
reference to whether the state courts' doors are open or
closed, or by a consideration of the policies which close
them and their relation to accommodating the policy of
the Erie rule with Congress' power to govern the
incidents of litigation in diversity suits.
It is in these close cases, this borderland area, that I
think we are going too far. It is one thing to decide that
Pennsylvania does or does not create a cause of action in
tort for injuries inflicted by specified conduct and to
have that determination govern the outcome of [337
U.S. 560] a diversity suit in Pennsylvania or New York.1
It is another, in my view, to require a bond for costs or
for payment of the opposing party's expenses and
attorney's fees in the event the claimant is unsuccessful.
Whether or not the latter is conceived as creating a new
substantive right, it is too close to controlling the
incidents of the litigation rather than its outcome to be
identified with the former. It is a matter which in my
opinion lies within Congress' control for diversity cases,
not one for state control or to be governed by the fact
that the state shuts the doors of its courts unless the
state requirements concerning such incidents of
litigation are complied with.
In my view Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure, derived from the former Equity Rules and
now having the sanction of Congress, is valid and
governs in the Cohen case. If, however, the State of
New Jersey has the power to govern federal diversity
suits within its [337 U.S. 561] borders as to all matters
having a substantive tinge or aspect, then it may be
questioned whether, in the event of conflict with some
local policy, a federal court sitting in that state could
give effect to the Rule's requirement that the complaint
aver "that the plaintiff was a shareholder at the time of
the transaction of which he complains or that his share
thereafter devolved on him by operation of law. . . ." For
in any strict and abstract sense that provision would
seem to be as much a "substantive" one as the New
Jersey requirements for bond, etc. And, if so, then it
would seem highly doubtful, on any automatic or
mechanical application of the substantive-procedural
dichotomy, that either Congress or this Court could
create such a limitation on diversity litigation, since as a
substantive matter this would be for the states to
control. See 3 Moore, Federal Practice (2d ed., 1948)
3493-3506.
For myself I have no doubt of the validity of Rule 23 or
of the power of Congress to enact such a rule, even
though it has a substantive aspect. Notwithstanding that
aspect, the rule is too closely related to procedural and
other matters affecting litigation in the federal courts for
me to conceive of its invalidity. So also in the present
cases I think the state regulations, though each may be
regarded as having a substantive aspect, are too closely
related to the modes and methods of conducting
litigation in the federal courts to be capable of displacing
Congress' power of regulation in those respects or the
federal courts' power to hear and determine the
respective controversies.
Accordingly I would reverse the judgments in the
Cohen and Ragan cases and affirm that in the Woods
case.