This case was brought in the District Court for the
Western District of South Carolina. Jurisdiction was
based on diversity of citizenship. 28 U. S. C. § 1332. The
petitioner, a resident of North Carolina, sued
respondent, a South Carolina corporation, for damages
for injuries allegedly caused by the respondent's
negligence. He had judgment on a jury verdict. The
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed and
directed the entry of judgment for the respondent. 238
F.2d 346. We granted certiorari, 352 U.S. 999, and
subsequently ordered reargument, 355 U.S. 950.
The respondent is in the business of selling electric
power to subscribers in rural sections of South Carolina.
The petitioner was employed as a lineman in the
construction crew of a construction contractor. The
contractor, R. H. Bouligny, Inc., held a contract with the
respondent in the amount of $334,300 for the building
of some 24 miles of new power lines, the reconversion
to higher capacities of about 88 miles of existing lines,
and the construction of 2 new substations and a breaker
station. [356 U.S. 527] The petitioner was injured while
connecting power lines to one of the new substations.
One of respondent's affirmative defenses was that,
under the South Carolina Workmen's Compensation
Act,1 the petitioner—because the work contracted to be
done by his employer was work of the kind also done by
the respondent's own construction and maintenance
crews— had the status of a statutory employee of the
respondent and was therefore barred from suing the
respondent at law because obliged to accept statutory
compensation benefits as the exclusive remedy for his
injuries.2 Two questions [356 U.S. 528] concerning this
defense are before us: (1) whether the Court of Appeals
erred in directing judgment for respondent without a
remand to give petitioner an opportunity to introduce
further evidence; and (2) whether petitioner, state
practice notwithstanding, is entitled to a jury
determination of the factual issues raised by this defense.
I.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina has held that
there is no particular formula by which to determine
whether an owner is a statutory employer under § 72-
111. In Smith v. Fulmer, 198 S.C. 91, 97, 15 S.E.2d 681,
683, the State Supreme Court said:
"And the opinion in the Marchbanks case [Marchbanks v. Duke
Power Co., 190 S.C. 336, 2 S.E.2d 825, said to be the "leading case"
under the statute] reminds us that while the language of the statute
is plain and unambiguous, there are so many different factual
situations which may arise that no easily applied formula can be laid
down for the determination of all cases. In other words, `it is often
a matter of extreme difficulty to decide whether the work in a given
case falls within the designation of the statute. It is in each case
largely a question of degree and of fact.' "
The respondent's manager testified on direct
examination that three of its substations were built by
the respondent's own construction and maintenance
crews. When pressed on cross-examination, however,
his answers left his testimony in such doubt as to lead
the trial judge to say, "I understood he changed his
testimony, that they had not built three." But the
credibility of the manager's testimony, and the general
question whether the evidence in support of the
affirmative defense presented [356 U.S. 529] a jury issue,
became irrelevant because of the interpretation given §
72-111 by the trial judge. In striking respondent's
affirmative defense at the close of all the evidence3 he
ruled that the respondent was the statutory employer of
the petitioner only if the construction work done by
respondent's crews was done for somebody else, and
was not the statutory employer if, as the proofs showed,
the crews built facilities only for the respondent's own
use. "My idea of engaging in the business is to do
something for somebody else. What they [the
respondent] are doing—and everything they do about
repairing lines and building substations, they do it for
themselves." On this view of the meaning of the statute,
the evidence, even accepting the manager's testimony
on direct examination as true, lacked proof of an
essential element of the affirmative defense, and there
was thus nothing for the petitioner to meet with proof
of his own.
The Court of Appeals disagreed with the District
Court's construction of § 72-111. Relying on the
decisions of the Supreme Court of South Carolina,
among others, in Marchbanks v. Duke Power Co., 190
S.C. 336, 2 S.E.2d 825, and Boseman v. Pacific Mills, 193
S.C. 479, 8 S.E.2d 878, the Court of Appeals held that
the statute granted respondent immunity from the
action if the proofs established that the respondent's
own crews had constructed lines and substations which,
like the work contracted to the petitioner's employer,
were necessary for the distribution of the electric power
which the respondent was in the business of selling. We
ordinarily accept the interpretation of local law by the
Court of [356 U.S. 530] Appeals, cf. Ragan v. Merchants
Transfer Co., 337 U.S. 530, 534, and do so readily here
since neither party now disputes the interpretation.
However, instead of ordering a new trial at which the
petitioner might offer his own proof pertinent to a
determination according to the correct interpretation,
the Court of Appeals made its own determination on
the record and directed a judgment for the respondent.
The court noted that the Rural Electric Cooperative Act
of South Carolina4 authorized the respondent to
construct, acquire, maintain, and operate electric
generating plants, buildings, and equipment, and any
and all kinds of property which might be necessary or
convenient to accomplish the purposes for which the
corporation was organized, and pointed out that the
work contracted to the petitioner's employer was of the
class which respondent was empowered by its charter to
perform.
The court resolved the uncertainties in the manager's
testimony in a manner largely favorable to the
respondent: "The testimony with respect to the
construction of the substations of Blue Ridge, stated
most favorably to the . . . [petitioner], discloses that
originally Blue Ridge built three substations with its
own facilities, but that all of the substations which were
built after the war, including the six it was operating at
the time of the accident, were constructed for it by
independent contractors, and that at the time of the
accident it had no one in its direct employ capable of
handling the technical detail of substation construction."
238 F.2d 346, 350.
The court found that the respondent financed the work
contracted to the petitioner's employer with a loan from
the United States, purchased the materials used in the
work, and entered into an engineering service contract
with an independent engineering company for the
design [356 U.S. 531] and supervision of the work,
concluding from these findings that "the main actor in
the whole enterprise was the Cooperative itself." Ibid.
Finally, the court held that its findings entitled the
respondent to the direction of a judgment in its favor. ".
. . [T]here can be no doubt that Blue Ridge was not only
in the business of supplying electricity to rural
communities, but also in the business of constructing
the lines and substations necessary for the distribution
of the product . . . ." Id., at 351.
While the matter is not adverted to in the court's
opinion, implicit in the direction of verdict is the
holding that the petitioner, although having no occasion
to do so under the District Court's erroneous
construction of the statute, was not entitled to an
opportunity to meet the respondent's case under the
correct interpretation. That holding is also implied in
the court's denial, without opinion, of petitioner's
motion for a rehearing sought on the ground that ". . .
[T]he direction to enter judgment for the defendant
instead of a direction to grant a new trial denies plaintiff
his right to introduce evidence in contradiction to that
of the defendant on the issue of defendant's affirmative
defense, a right which he would have exercised if the
District Judge had ruled adversely to him on his motion
to dismiss, and thus deprives him of his constitutional
right to a jury trial on a factual issue."
We believe that the Court of Appeals erred. We do not
agree with the petitioner's argument in this Court that
the respondent's evidence was insufficient to withstand
the motion to strike the defense and that he is entitled to
our judgment reinstating the judgment of the District
Court. But the petitioner is entitled to have the question
determined in the trial court. This would be necessary
even if petitioner offered no proof of his own. Although
the respondent's evidence was sufficient to withstand
the motion under the meaning given the [356 U.S. 532]
statute by the Court of Appeals, it presented a fact
question, which, in the circumstances of this case to be
discussed infra, is properly to be decided by a jury. This
is clear not only because of the issue of the credibility of
the manager's vital testimony, but also because, even
should the jury resolve that issue as did the Court of
Appeals, the jury on the entire record—consistent with
the view of the South Carolina cases that this question is
in each case largely one of degree and of fact—might
reasonably reach an opposite conclusion from the Court
of Appeals as to the ultimate fact whether the
respondent was a statutory employer.
At all events, the petitioner is plainly entitled to have an
opportunity to try the issue under the Court of Appeals'
interpretation. His motion to dismiss the affirmative
defense, properly viewed, was analogous to a
defendant's motion for involuntary dismissal of an
action after the plaintiff has completed the presentation
of his evidence. Under Rule 41 (b) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure, in such case "the defendant, without
waiving his right to offer evidence in the event the
motion is not granted, may move for dismissal on the
ground that upon the facts and the law the plaintiff has
shown no right to relief." The respondent argues,
however, that before the trial judge ruled on the
petitioner's motion, the petitioner's counsel, in effect,
conceded that he had no other evidence to offer and was
submitting the issue of whether the respondent was a
statutory employer on the basis of the evidence already
in the case. The judge asked petitioner's counsel: "In the
event I overrule your motion, do you contemplate
putting up any testimony in reply?" Counsel answered:
"We haven't discussed it, but we are making that
motion. I frankly don't know at this point of any reply
that is necessary. I don't know of any evidence in this
case—." The interruption which prevented counsel's
completion of the answer was the trial judge's [356 U.S.
533] comment: "I am inclined to think so far it is a
question of law but I will hear from Mr. Walker
[respondent's counsel] on that. I don't know of any issue
of fact to submit to the jury. It seems to me under the
testimony here there has been—I don't know of any
conflict in the testimony, so far as that's concerned, so
far." The judge turned to respondent's counsel and there
followed a long colloquy with him,5 at the conclusion of
which the judge dismissed the defense upon the ground
that under his interpretation of the statute the defense
was not sustained without evidence that the
respondent's business involved the doing of work for
others of the kind done by the petitioner's employer for
the respondent. Upon this record it plainly cannot be
said that the petitioner submitted the issue upon the
evidence in the case and conceded that he had no
evidence of his own to offer. The petitioner was fully
justified in that circumstance in not coming forward
with proof of his own at that stage of the proceedings,
for he had nothing to meet under the District Court's
view of the statute. He thus cannot be penalized by the
denial of his day in court to try the issue under the
correct interpretation of the statute. Cf. Fountain v.
Filson, 336 U.S. 681; Weade v. Dichmann, Wright &
Pugh, Inc., 337 U.S. 801; Globe Liquor Co. v. San
Roman, 332 U.S. 571; Cone v. West Virginia Paper Co.,
330 U.S. 212.
II.
A question is also presented as to whether on remand
the factual issue is to be decided by the judge or by the
jury. The respondent argues on the basis of the decision
of the Supreme Court of South Carolina in Adams v.
Davison-Paxon Co., 230 S.C. 532, 96 S.E.2d 566,6 [356
U.S. 534] that the issue of immunity should be decided
by the judge and not by the jury. That was a negligence
action brought in the state trial court against a store
owner by an employee of an independent contractor
who operated the store's millinery department. The trial
judge denied the store owner's motion for a directed
verdict made upon the ground that § 72-111 barred the
plaintiff's action. The jury returned a verdict for the
plaintiff. The South Carolina Supreme Court reversed,
holding that it was for the judge and not the jury to
decide on the evidence whether the owner was a
statutory employer, and that the store owner had
sustained his defense. The court rested its holding on
decisions, listed in footnote 8, infra, involving judicial
review of the Industrial Commission and said:
"Thus the trial court should have in this case resolved the conflicts
in the evidence and determined the fact of whether . . . [the
independent contractor] was performing a part of the `trade,
business or occupation' of the department store-appellant and,
therefore, whether . . . [the employee's] remedy is exclusively under
the Workmen's Compensation Law." 230 S. C., at 543, 96 S. E. 2d,
at 572.
The respondent argues that this state-court decision
governs the present diversity case and "divests the jury
of its normal function" to decide the disputed fact
question of the respondent's immunity under § 72-111.
This is to contend that the federal court is bound under
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64, to follow the state
court's holding to secure uniform enforcement of the
immunity created by the State.7
[356 U.S. 535] First. It was decided in Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins that the federal courts in diversity cases must
respect the definition of state-created rights and
obligations by the state courts. We must, therefore, first
examine the rule in Adams v. Davison-Paxon Co. to
determine whether it is bound up with these rights and
obligations in such a way that its application in the
federal court is required. Cities Service Oil Co. v.
Dunlap, 308 U.S. 208.
The Workmen's Compensation Act is administered in
South Carolina by its Industrial Commission. The South
Carolina courts hold that, on judicial review of actions
of the Commission under § 72-111, the question
whether the claim of an injured workman is within the
Commission's jurisdiction is a matter of law for decision
by the court, which makes its own findings of fact
relating to that jurisdiction.8 The South Carolina
Supreme Court states no reasons in Adams v. DavisonPaxon
Co. why, although the jury decides all other
factual issues raised by the cause of action and defenses,
the jury is displaced as to the factual issue raised by the
affirmative defense under § 72-111. The decisions cited
to support the holding are those listed in footnote 8,
which are concerned solely with defining the scope and
method of judicial review of the Industrial [356 U.S. 536]
Commission. A State may, of course, distribute the
functions of its judicial machinery as it sees fit. The
decisions relied upon, however, furnish no reason for
selecting the judge rather than the jury to decide this
single affirmative defense in the negligence action. They
simply reflect a policy, cf. Crowell v. Benson, 285 U.S.
22, that administrative determination of "jurisdictional
facts" should not be final but subject to judicial review.
The conclusion is inescapable that the Adams holding is
grounded in the practical consideration that the
question had therefore come before the South Carolina
courts from the Industrial Commission and the courts
had become accustomed to deciding the factual issue of
immunity without the aid of juries. We find nothing to
suggest that this rule was announced as an integral part
of the special relationship created by the statute. Thus
the requirement appears to be merely a form and mode
of enforcing the immunity, Guaranty Trust Co. v. York,
326 U.S. 99, 108, and not a rule intended to be bound up
with the definition of the rights and obligations of the
parties. The situation is therefore not analogous to that
in Dice v. Akron, C. & Y. R. Co., 342 U.S. 359, where
this Court held that the right to trial by jury is so
substantial a part of the cause of action created by the
Federal Employers' Liability Act that the Ohio courts
could not apply, in an action under that statute, the
Ohio rule that the question of fraudulent release was for
determination by a judge rather than by a jury.
Second. But cases following Erie have evinced a broader
policy to the effect that the federal courts should
conform as near as may be—in the absence of other
considerations —to state rules even of form and mode
where the state rules may bear substantially on the
question whether the litigation would come out one way
in the federal court and another way in the state court if
the federal [356 U.S. 537] court failed to apply a
particular local rule.9 E. g., Guaranty Trust Co. v. York,
supra; Bernhardt v. Polygraphic Co., 350 U.S. 198.
Concededly the nature of the tribunal which tries issues
may be important in the enforcement of the parcel of
rights making up a cause of action or defense, and bear
significantly upon achievement of uniform enforcement
of the right. It may well be that in the instant personalinjury
case the outcome would be substantially affected
by whether the issue of immunity is decided by a judge
or a jury. Therefore, were "outcome" the only
consideration, a strong case might appear for saying that
the federal court should follow the state practice.
But there are affirmative countervailing considerations
at work here. The federal system is an independent
system for administering justice to litigants who
properly invoke its jurisdiction. An essential
characteristic of that system is the manner in which, in
civil common-law actions, it distributes trial functions
between judge and jury and, under the influence—if not
the command10 —of the Seventh Amendment, assigns
the decisions of disputed questions of fact to the jury.
Jacob v. New York, 315 U.S. 752.11 The policy of
uniform enforcement of state-created [356 U.S. 538]
rights and obligations, see, e. g., Guaranty Trust Co. v.
York, supra, cannot in every case exact compliance with
a state rule12 —not bound up with rights and
obligations— which disrupts the federal system of
allocating functions between judge and jury. Herron v.
Southern Pacific Co., 283 U.S. 91. Thus the inquiry here
is whether the federal policy favoring jury decisions of
disputed fact questions should yield to the state rule in
the interest of furthering the objective that the litigation
should not come out one way in the federal court and
another way in the state court.
We think that in the circumstances of this case the
federal court should not follow the state rule. It cannot
be gainsaid that there is a strong federal policy against
allowing state rules to disrupt the judge-jury
relationship in the federal courts. In Herron v. Southern
Pacific Co., supra, the trial judge in a personal-injury
negligence action brought in the District Court for
Arizona on diversity grounds directed a verdict for the
defendant when it appeared as a matter of law that the
plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence. The
federal judge refused to be bound by a provision of the
Arizona Constitution which made the jury the sole
arbiter of the question [356 U.S. 539] of contributory
negligence.13 This Court sustained the action of the trial
judge, holding that "state laws cannot alter the essential
character or function of a federal court" because that
function "is not in any sense a local matter, and state
statutes which would interfere with the appropriate
performance of that function are not binding upon the
federal court under either the Conformity Act or the
`rules of decision' Act." Id., at 94. Perhaps even more
clearly in light of the influence of the Seventh
Amendment, the function assigned to the jury "is an
essential factor in the process for which the Federal
Constitution provides." Id., at 95. Concededly the
Herron case was decided before Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins, but even when Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, was
governing law and allowed federal courts sitting in
diversity cases to disregard state decisional law, it was
never thought that state statutes or constitutions were
similarly to be disregarded. Green v. Neal's Lessee, 6 Pet.
291. Yet Herron held that state statutes and
constitutional provisions could not disrupt or alter the
essential character or function of a federal court.14
Third. We have discussed the problem upon the
assumption that the outcome of the litigation may be
substantially affected by whether the issue of immunity
is decided by a judge or a jury. But clearly there is not
present here the certainty that a different result would
follow, cf. Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, supra, or even
the strong possibility that this would be the case, cf.
Bernhardt v. [356 U.S. 540] Polygraphic Co., supra.
There are factors present here which might reduce that
possibility. The trial judge in the federal system has
powers denied the judges of many States to comment on
the weight of evidence and credibility of witnesses, and
discretion to grant a new trial if the verdict appears to
him to be against the weight of the evidence. We do not
think the likelihood of a different result is so strong as to
require the federal practice of jury determination of
disputed factual issues to yield to the state rule in the
interest of uniformity of outcome.15
The Court of Appeals did not consider other grounds of
appeal raised by the respondent because the ground
taken disposed of the case. We accordingly remand the
case to the Court of Appeals for the decision of the other
questions, with instructions that, if not made
unnecessary by the decision of such questions, the Court
of Appeals shall remand the case to the District Court
for a new trial of such issues as the Court of Appeals
may direct.
Reversed and remanded.