In 1936 the South Carolina Legislature passed an Act
known as "The South Carolina Workmen's
Compensation Law." S. C. Code, 1952, Tit. 72. It created
a new, complete, detailed and exclusive plan for the
compensation [356 U.S. 541] by an "employer" of his
"employee"1 for bodily injuries sustained by the latter
which arise "by accident out of and in the course of the
employment," whether with or without fault of the
employer. § 72-14. The Act also prescribes the measure
and nature of the remedy,2 which "shall exclude all other
rights and remedies of such employee . . . against his
employer, at common law or otherwise, on account of
such injury" (§ 72-121), and vests exclusive jurisdiction
in the South Carolina Industrial Commission over all
claims falling within the purview of the Act (§ 72-66),
subject to review by appeal to the State's courts upon
"errors of law." § 72-356.
Section 72-111 expands the definition of the terms
"employee" and "employer" (note 1) by providing, in
substance, that when an " `owner' " of premises
"undertakes to perform or execute any work which is a
part of his trade, business or occupation and contracts
with any other person [called "subcontractor"] for the
execution or performance by or under such
subcontractor of the whole or any part of the work
undertaken by such owner, the owner shall be liable to
pay to any workman employed in the work any
compensation under this Title which he would have
been liable to pay if the workman had been immediately
employed by him." (Emphasis supplied.) Employees of
such subcontractors are commonly called "statutory
employees" of the "owner."
Petitioner, a lineman employed by a "subcontractor"
who had contracted to build more than 25 miles of new
transmission lines and to convert from single-phase to
double-phase more than 87 miles of existing
transmission lines and to construct two substations and
a breaker station for the "owner," was severely injured
by an accident [356 U.S. 542] which arose out of and in
the course of that employment. Subsequent to his injury
he sought and received the full benefits provided by the
South Carolina Workmen's Compensation Law.
Diversity existing, petitioner then brought this
common-law suit in a Federal District Court in South
Carolina against the "owner," the respondent here, for
damages for his bodily injury, which, he alleged, had
resulted from the "owner's" negligence. The
respondent-"owner" answered setting up, among other
defenses, the affirmative claim that petitioner's injury
arose by accident out of and in the course of his
employment, as a lineman, by the subcontractor while
executing the contracted work "which [was] a part of
[the owner's] trade, business or occupation." It urged, in
consequence, that petitioner was its "statutory
employee" and that, therefore, his exclusive remedy was
under the South Carolina Workmen's Compensation
Law, and that exclusive jurisdiction of the subject matter
of his claim was vested in the State's Industrial
Commission and, hence, the federal court lacked
jurisdiction over the subject matter of this common-law
suit.
At the trial petitioner adduced evidence upon the issue
of negligence and rested his case in chief. Thereupon
respondent, in support of its affirmative defense,
adduced evidence tending to show (1) that its charter,
issued under the Rural Electric Cooperative Act of
South Carolina (S. C. Code, 1952, § 12-1025),
authorized it to construct and operate electric
generating plants and transmission lines essential to its
business of generating and distributing electricity; (2)
that it had (before the Second World War) constructed
substations with its own direct employees and facilities,
although the six substations which it was operating at
the time petitioner was injured had been built by
contractors, and that when [356 U.S. 543] petitioner was
injured it did not have in its direct employ any person
capable of constructing a substation;3 (3) that it
regularly employed a crew of 16 men—8 linemen and 8
groundmen—two-thirds of whose time was spent in
constructing new transmission lines and extensions, and
that such was "a part of [its] trade, business [and]
occupation." This evidence stood undisputed when
respondent rested its case.
At the close of respondent's evidence petitioner moved
to strike respondent's affirmative jurisdictional defense,
and all evidence adduced in support of it. Respondent
made known to the court that when petitioner had
rested it wished to move for a directed verdict in its
favor. Thereupon the colloquy between the court and
counsel, which is set forth in substance in MR. JUSTICE
FRANKFURTER'S dissenting opinion, occurred. The
District Court sustained petitioner's motion and struck
respondent's affirmative jurisdictional defense and its
supporting evidence from the record. His declared basis
for that action was that the phrase in § 72-111 "a part of
his trade, business or occupation" related only to work
being performed by the "owner" "for somebody else."
Thereafter, [356 U.S. 544] the district judge heard
arguments upon and overruled respondent's motion for
a directed verdict,4 and submitted the case to the jury
which returned a verdict for petitioner.
On appeal, the Court of Appeals found that the district
judge's construction of § 72-111 was not supportable
under controlling South Carolina decisions. It further
found that respondent's evidence disclosed that
respondent "was not only in the business of supplying
electricity to rural communities, but [was] also in the
business of constructing the lines and substations
necessary for the distribution of the product," and that
the contracted work was of like nature and, hence, was
"a part of [respondent's] trade, business or occupation,"
within the meaning of § 72-111, and, therefore,
petitioner was respondent's statutory employee, and,
hence, the court was without jurisdiction over the
subject matter of the claim. Upon this basis, it reversed
the judgment of the District Court with directions to
enter judgment for respondent. 238 F.2d 346.
This Court now vacates the judgment of the Court of
Appeals and remands the case to it for decision of
questions not reached in its prior opinion, with
directions, if not made unnecessary by its decision of
such questions, to remand the case to the District Court
for a new trial upon such issues as the Court of Appeals
may direct.
I agree with and join in that much of the Court's
opinion. I do so because—although, as found by the [356
U.S. 545] Court of Appeals, respondent's evidence was
ample, prima facie, to sustain its affirmative
jurisdictional defense— petitioner had not waived his
right to adduce evidence in rebuttal upon that issue, in
other words had not "rested," at the time the district
judge erroneously struck respondent's jurisdictional
defense and supporting evidence from the record. In
these circumstances, I believe that the judgment of the
Court of Appeals, insofar as it directed the District
Court to enter judgment for respondent, would deprive
petitioner of his legal right, which he had not waived, to
adduce evidence which he claims to have and desires to
offer in rebuttal of respondent's prima facie established
jurisdictional defense. The procedural situation then
existing was not legally different from a case in which a
defendant, without resting, moves, at the close of the
plaintiff's case, for a directed verdict in its favor which
the court erroneously sustains, and, on appeal, is
reversed for that error. It could not fairly be contended,
in those circumstances, that the appellate court might
properly direct the trial court to enter judgment for the
plaintiff and thus deprive the defendant, who had not
rested, of his right to offer evidence in defense of
plaintiff's case. Rule 50, Fed. Rules Civ. Proc. It is urged
by respondent that, from the colloquy between the
district judge and counsel, which, as stated, is set forth in
substance in MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER'S
dissenting opinion, it appears that petitioner had
"rested," and thus had waived his right to adduce
rebuttal evidence upon the issue of respondent's
jurisdictional defense, before the district judge sustained
his motion to strike that defense and the supporting
evidence. But my analysis of the record convinces me
that petitioner, in fact, never did so. For this reason I
believe that so much of the judgment of the Court of
Appeals as directed the District Court to enter judgment
for respondent deprives petitioner of his right to adduce
rebuttal evidence upon the [356 U.S. 546] issue of
respondent's prima facie established jurisdictional
defense, and, therefore, cannot stand.
But the Court's opinion proceeds to discuss and
determine the question whether, upon remand to the
District Court, if such becomes necessary, the
jurisdictional issue is to be determined by the judge or
by the jury—a question which, to my mind, is
premature, not now properly before us, and is one we
need not and should not now reach for or decide. The
Court, although premising its conclusion "upon the
assumption that the outcome of the litigation may be
substantially affected by whether the issue of immunity5
is decided by a judge or a jury." holds that the issue is to
be determined by a jury—not by the judge. I cannot
agree to this conclusion for the following reasons.
As earlier shown, the South Carolina Workmen's
Compensation Law creates a new, complete, detailed
and exclusive bundle of rights respecting the
compensation by an "employer" of his "employee" for
bodily injuries sustained by the latter which arise by
accident out of and in the course of the employment,
regardless of fault, and vests exclusive jurisdiction in the
State's Industrial Commission over all such claims,
subject to review by appeal in the South Carolina courts
only upon "errors of law." Consonant with § 72-66,
which vests exclusive jurisdiction over such claims in
the Commission, and with § 72-356, which allows
judicial review only upon "errors of law," the Supreme
Court of the State has uniformly held that the question,
in cases like the present, whether [356 U.S. 547]
jurisdiction over such claims is vested in the Industrial
Commission or in the courts presents a question of law
for determination by the court, not a jury. In Adams v.
Davison-Paxon Co., 230 S.C. 532, 96 S.E.2d 566 (1957),
which appears to be the last case by the Supreme Court
of the State on the question, plaintiff, an employee of a
concessionaire operating the millinery department in
defendant's store, was injured, she claimed by
negligence, while using a stairway in the store. She
brought a common-law suit for damages against the
owner of the store. The latter defended upon the
ground, among others, that the operation of the
millinery department, though under a contract with the
concessionaire, plaintiff's employer, was "a part of [its]
trade, business or occupation," that the plaintiff was
therefore its statutory employee under § 72-111 and
exclusive jurisdiction over the subject matter of
plaintiff's claim was vested in the Industrial
Commission, and that the court was without
jurisdiction over the subject matter in her common-law
suit. It seems that the trial court submitted this issue,
along with others, to the jury which returned a verdict
for plaintiff. On appeal the Supreme Court of the State
reversed, saying:
"It has been consistently held that whether the claim of an injured
workman is within the jurisdiction of the Industrial Commission is
a matter of law for decision by the Court, which includes the
finding of the facts which relate to jurisdiction. Knight v. Shepherd,
191 S.C. 452, 4 S.E.2d 906; Tedars v. Savannah River Veneer
Company, 202 S.C. 363, 25 S.E.2d 235, 147 A. L. R. 914; McDowell
v. Stilley Plywood Co., 210 S.C. 173, 41 S.E.2d 872; Miles v. West
Virginia Pulp & Paper Co., 212 S.C. 424, 48 S.E.2d 26; Watson v.
Wannamaker & Wells, Inc., 212 S.C. 506, 48 S.E.2d 447; Gordon v.
Hollywood-Beaufort Package Corp., 213 S.C. 438, 49 S.E.2d
718;[356 U.S. 548] Holland v. Georgia Hardwood Lbr. Co., 214 S.C.
195, 51 S.E.2d 744; Younginer v. J. A. Jones Const. Co., 215 S.C.
135, 54 S.E.2d 545; Horton v. Baruch, 217 S.C. 48, 59 S.E.2d 545.
"Thus the trial court should have in this case resolved the conflicts
in the evidence and determined the fact of whether Emporium [the
concessionaire] was performing a part of the `trade, business or
occupation' of the department store-appellant and, therefore,
whether respondent's remedy is exclusively under the Workmen's
Compensation Law." 230 S. C., at 543, 96 S. E. 2d, at 571.
(Emphasis supplied.)
It thus seems to be settled under the South Carolina
Workmen's Compensation Law, and the decisions of
the highest court of that State construing it, that the
question whether exclusive jurisdiction, in cases like
this, is vested in its Industrial Commission or in its
courts of general jurisdiction is one for decision by the
court, not by a jury. The Federal District Court, in this
diversity case, is bound to follow the substantive South
Carolina law that would be applied if the trial were to be
held in a South Carolina court, in which State the
Federal District Court sits. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304
U.S. 64. A Federal District Court sitting in South
Carolina may not legally reach a substantially different
result than would have been reached upon a trial of the
same case "in a State court a block away." Guaranty
Trust Co. v. York, 326 U.S. 99, 109.
The Court's opinion states: "Concededly the nature of
the tribunal which tries issues may be important in the
enforcement of the parcel of rights making up a cause of
action or defense, and bear significantly upon
achievement of uniform enforcement of the right. It
may well be that in the instant personal-injury case the
outcome [356 U.S. 549] would be substantially affected
by whether the issue of immunity is decided by a judge
or a jury." And the Court premises its conclusion "upon
the assumption that the outcome of the litigation may be
substantially affected by whether the issue of immunity
is decided by a judge or a jury." Upon that premise, the
Court's conclusion, to my mind, is contrary to our cases.
"Here [as in Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, supra] we are
dealing with a right to recover derived not from the
United States but from one of the States. When, because
the plaintiff happens to be a non-resident, such a right is
enforceable in a federal as well as in a State court, the
forms and mode of enforcing the right may at times,
naturally enough, vary because the two judicial systems
are not identic. But since a federal court adjudicating a
State-created right solely because of the diversity of
citizenship of the parties is for that purpose, in effect,
only another court of the State, it cannot afford recovery
if the right to recover is made unavailable by the State
nor can it substantially affect the enforcement of the
right as given by the State." Guaranty Trust Co. v. York,
supra, at 108-109. (Emphasis supplied.)
The words "substantive" and "procedural" are mere
conceptual labels and in no sense talismanic. To call a
legal question by one or the other of those terms does
not resolve the question otherwise than as a purely
authoritarian performance. When a question though
denominated "procedural" is nevertheless so
"substantive" as materially to affect the result of a trial,
federal courts, in enforcing state-created rights, are not
free to disregard it, on the ground that it is "procedural,"
for such would be to allow, upon mere nomenclature, a
different result in a state court from that allowable in a
federal court though both are, in effect, courts of the
State and "sitting side by side." Klaxon Co. v. Stentor
Co., 313 U.S. 487, 496. "The federal court enforces the
state-created right [356 U.S. 550] by rules of procedure
which it has acquired from the Federal Government and
which therefore are not identical with those of the state
courts. Yet, in spite of that difference in procedure, the
federal court enforcing a state-created right in a
diversity case is, as we said in Guaranty Trust Co. v.
York, 326 U.S. 99, 108, in substance `only another court
of the State.' The federal court therefore may not
`substantially affect the enforcement of the right as
given by the State.' Id., 109." Bernhardt v. Polygraphic
Co., 350 U.S. 198, 202-203. (Emphasis supplied.)
"Where local law qualifies or abridges [the right], the
federal court must follow suit. Otherwise there is a
different measure of the cause of action in one court
than in the other, and the principle of Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins is transgressed." Ragan v. Merchants
Transfer Co., 337 U.S. 530, 533. "It is therefore
immaterial whether [state-created rights] are
characterized either as `substantive' or `procedural' in
State court opinions in any use of those terms unrelated
to the specific issue before us. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins
was not an endeavor to formulate scientific legal
terminology. It expressed a policy that touches vitally
the proper distribution of judicial power between State
and federal courts. In essence, the intent of that decision
was to insure that, in all cases where a federal court is
exercising jurisdiction solely because of the diversity of
citizenship of the parties, the outcome of the litigation
in the federal court should be substantially the same, so
far as legal rules determine the outcome of a litigation,
as it would be if tried in a State court. The nub of the
policy that underlies Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins is that for
the same transaction the accident of a suit by a nonresident
litigant in a federal court instead of in a State
court a block away should not lead to a substantially
different result. And so, putting to one side abstractions
regarding `substance' and `procedure,' we have held that
in diversity cases the federal [356 U.S. 551] courts must
follow the law of the State . . . ." Guaranty Trust Co. v.
York, supra, at 109. (Emphasis supplied.)
Inasmuch as the law of South Carolina, as construed by
its highest court, requires its courts—not juries—to
determine whether jurisdiction over the subject matter
of cases like this is vested in its Industrial Commission,
and inasmuch as the Court's opinion concedes "that in
the instant personal-injury case the outcome would be
substantially affected by whether the issue of immunity
is decided by a judge or a jury," it follows that in this
diversity case the jurisdictional issue must be
determined by the judge—not by the jury. Insofar as the
Court holds that the question of jurisdiction should be
determined by the jury, I think the Court departs from
its past decisions. I therefore respectfully dissent from
part II of the opinion of the Court.