This controversy concerns the right to $400,000, part of
the corpus of a trust established in Delaware by a settlor
who later became domiciled in Florida. One group of
claimants, "legatees," urge that this property passed
under the residuary clause of the settlor's will, which
was admitted to probate in Florida. The Florida courts
have sustained this position. 100 So.2d 378. Other
claimants, "appointees" and "beneficiaries," contend that
the property passed pursuant to the settlor's exercise of
the inter vivos power of appointment created in the
deed of trust. The Delaware courts adopted this position
and refused to accord full faith and credit to the Florida
determination because the Florida court had not
acquired jurisdiction over an indispensable party, the
Delaware trustee. ___ Del. ___, 128 A.2d 819. We
postponed the question of jurisdiction in the Florida
appeal, No. 107, 354 U.S. 919, and granted certiorari to
the Delaware Supreme Court, No. 117, 354 U.S. 920.
The trust whose validity is contested here was created in
1935. Dora Browning Donner, then a domiciliary of
Pennsylvania, executed a trust instrument in Delaware
naming the Wilmington Trust Co., of Wilmington,
Delaware, as trustee. The corpus was composed of
securities. Mrs. Donner reserved the income for life, and
stated that the remainder should be paid to such persons
or upon such trusts as she should appoint by inter vivos
or testamentary instrument. The trust agreement
provided that Mrs. Donner could change the trustee,
and that she could amend, alter or revoke the agreement
at any time. A measure of control over trust
administration was assured by the provision that only
with the consent of a trust "advisor" appointed by the
settlor could the trustee (1) sell trust assets, (2) make
investments, and (3) participate in any plan, proceeding,
reorganization or merger [357 U.S. 239] involving
securities held in the trust. A few days after the trust was
established Mrs. Donner exercised her power of
appointment. That appointment was replaced by
another in 1939. Thereafter she left Pennsylvania, and
in 1944 became domiciled in Florida, where she
remained until her death in 1952. Mrs. Donner's will
was executed Dec. 3, 1949. On that same day she
executed the inter vivos power of appointment whose
terms are at issue here.1 After making modest
appointments in favor of a hospital and certain family
retainers (the "appointees"),2 she appointed the sum of
$200,000 to each of two trusts previously established
with another Delaware trustee, the Delaware Trust Co.
The balance of the trust corpus, over $1,000,000 at the
date of her death, was appointed to her executrix. That
amount passed under the residuary clause of her will and
is not at issue here.
The two trusts with the Delaware Trust Co. were
created in 1948 by Mrs. Donner's daughter, Elizabeth
Donner Hanson, for the benefit of Elizabeth's children,
Donner Hanson and Joseph Donner Winsor. In
identical terms they provide that the income not
required for the beneficiary's support should be
accumulated to age 25, when the beneficiary should be
paid 1/4 of the corpus and receive the income from the
balance for life. Upon the death of the beneficiary the
remainder was to go to such of the beneficiary's issue or
Elizabeth Donner Hanson's issue as the beneficiary
should appoint by inter vivos or testamentary
instrument; in default of appointment to the
beneficiary's issue alive at the time of his death, and if
none to the issue of Elizabeth Donner Hanson.
Mrs. Donner died Nov. 20, 1952. Her will, which was
admitted to probate in Florida, named Elizabeth Donner
[357 U.S. 240] Hanson as executrix. She was instructed
to pay all debts and taxes, including any which might be
payable by reason of the property appointed under the
power of appointment in the trust agreement with the
Wilmington Trust Co. After disposing of personal and
household effects, Mrs. Donner's will directed that the
balance of her property (the $1,000,000 appointed from
the Delaware trust) be paid in equal parts to two trusts
for the benefit of her daughters Katherine N. R. Denckla
and Dorothy B. R. Stewart.
This controversy grows out of the residuary clause that
created the last-mentioned trusts. It begins:
"All the rest, residue and remainder of my estate, real, personal and
mixed, whatsoever and wheresoever the same may be at the time of
my death, including any and all property, rights and interest over
which I may have power of appointment which prior to my death
has not been effectively exercised by me or has been exercised by
me in favor of my Executrix, I direct my Executrix to deal with as
follows . . . ."
Residuary legatees Denckla and Stewart, already the
recipients of over $500,000 each, urge that the power of
appointment over the $400,000 appointed to sister
Elizabeth's children was not "effectively exercised" and
that the property should accordingly pass to them.
Fourteen months after Mrs. Donner's death these
parties petitioned a Florida chancery court for a
declaratory judgment "concerning what property passes
under the residuary clause" of the will. Personal service
was had upon the following defendants: (1) executrix
Elizabeth Donner Hanson, (2) beneficiaries Donner
Hanson and Joseph Donner Winsor, and (3) potential
beneficiary William Donner Roosevelt, also one of
Elizabeth's children. Curtin Winsor, Jr., another of
Elizabeth's children and [357 U.S. 241] also a potential
beneficiary of the Delaware trusts, was not named as a
party and was not served. About a dozen other
defendants were nonresidents and could not be
personally served. These included the Wilmington
Trust Co. ("trustee"), the Delaware Trust Co. (to whom
the $400,000 had been paid shortly after Mrs. Donner's
death), certain individuals who were potential
successors in interest to complainants Denckla and
Stewart, and most of the named appointees in Mrs.
Donner's 1949 appointment. A copy of the pleadings
and a "Notice to Appear and Defend" were sent to each
of these defendants by ordinary mail, and notice was
published locally as required by the Florida statutes
dealing with constructive service.3 With the exception
of two individuals whose interests coincided with
complainants Denckla and Stewart, none of the
nonresident defendants made any appearance.
The appearing defendants (Elizabeth Donner Hanson
and her children) moved to dismiss the suit because the
exercise of jurisdiction over indispensable parties, the
Delaware trustees, would offend Section 1 of the [357
U.S. 242] Fourteenth Amendment. The Chancellor
ruled that he lacked jurisdiction over these nonresident
defendants because no personal service was had and
because the trust corpus was outside the territorial
jurisdiction of the court. The cause was dismissed as to
them. As far as parties before the court were concerned,
however, he ruled that the power of appointment was
testamentary and void under the applicable Florida law.
In a decree dated Jan. 14, 1955, he ruled that the
$400,000 passed under the residuary clause of the will.
After the Florida litigation began, but before entry of
the decree, the executrix instituted a declaratory
judgment action in Delaware to determine who was
entitled to participate in the trust assets held in that
State. Except for the addition of beneficiary Winsor and
several appointees, the parties were substantially the
same as in the Florida litigation. Nonresident defendants
were notified by registered mail. All of the trust
companies, beneficiaries, and legatees except Katherine
N. R. Denckla, appeared and participated in the
litigation. After the Florida court enjoined executrix
Hanson from further participation, her children pursued
their own interests. When the Florida decree was
entered the legatees unsuccessfully urged it as res
judicata of the Delaware dispute. In a decree dated Jan.
13, 1956, the Delaware Chancellor ruled that the trust
and power of appointment were valid under the
applicable Delaware law, and that the trust corpus had
properly been paid to the Delaware Trust Co. and the
other appointees. ___ Del. Ch. ___, 119 A.2d 901.
Alleging that she would be bound, by the Delaware
decree, the executrix moved the Florida Supreme Court
to remand with instructions to dismiss the Florida suit
then pending on appeal. No full faith and credit question
was raised. The motion was denied. The Florida
Supreme Court affirmed its Chancellor's conclusion that
Florida law applied to determine the validity of the trust
[357 U.S. 243] and power of appointment. Under that
law the trust was invalid because the settlor had
reserved too much power over the trustee and trust
corpus, and the power of appointment was not
independently effective to pass the property because it
was a testamentary act not accompanied by the requisite
formalities. The Chancellor's conclusion that there was
no jurisdiction over the trust companies and other
absent defendants was reversed. The court ruled that
jurisdiction to construe the will carried with it
"substantive" jurisdiction "over the persons of the absent
defendants" even though the trust assets were not
"physically in this state." Whether this meant
jurisdiction over the person of the defendants or
jurisdiction over the trust assets is open to doubt. In a
motion for rehearing the beneficiaries and appointees
urged for the first time that Florida should have given
full faith and credit to the decision of the Delaware
Chancellor. The motion was denied without opinion,
Nov. 28, 1956.
The full faith and credit question was first raised in the
Delaware litigation by an unsuccessful motion for new
trial filed with the Chancellor Jan. 20, 1956. After the
Florida Supreme Court decision the matter was renewed
by a motion to remand filed with the Delaware Supreme
Court. In a decision of Jan. 14, 1957, that court denied
the motion and affirmed its Chancellor in all respects.
The Florida decree was held not binding for purposes of
full faith and credit because the Florida court had no
personal jurisdiction over the trust companies and no
jurisdiction over the trust res.
The issues for our decision are, first, whether Florida
erred in holding that it had jurisdiction over the
nonresident defendants, and second, whether Delaware
erred in refusing full faith and credit to the Florida
decree. We need not determine whether Florida was
bound to give full faith and credit to the decree of the
Delaware Chancellor [357 U.S. 244] since the question
was not seasonably presented to the Florida court. Radio
Station WOW v. Johnson, 326 U.S. 120, 128.
No. 107, The Florida Appeal. The question of our
jurisdiction was postponed until the hearing of the
merits. The appeal is predicated upon the contention
that as applied to the facts of this case the Florida statute
providing for constructive service is contrary to the
Federal Constitution. 28 U. S. C. § 1257 (2). But in the
state court appellants (the "beneficiaries") did not object
that the statute was invalid as applied, but rather that
the effect of the state court's exercise of jurisdiction in
the circumstances of this case deprived them of a right
under the Federal Constitution.4 Accordingly, we are
without jurisdiction of the appeal and it must be
dismissed. Wilson v. Cook, 327 U.S. 474, 482;
Charleston Fed. Sav. & L. Assn. v. Alderson, 324 U.S.
182. Treating the papers whereon appeal was taken as a
petition for certiorari, 28 U. S. C. § 2103, certiorari is
granted.
Relying upon the principle that a person cannot invoke
the jurisdiction of this Court to vindicate the right of a
third party,5 appellees urge that appellants lack standing
to complain of a defect in jurisdiction over the
nonresident [357 U.S. 245] trust companies, who have
made no appearance in this action. Florida adheres to
the general rule that a trustee is an indispensable party
to litigation involving the validity of the trust.6 In the
absence of such a party a Florida court may not proceed
to adjudicate the controversy.7 Since state law required
the acquisition of jurisdiction over the nonresident trust
company8 before the court was empowered to proceed
with the action, any defendant affected by the court's
judgment has that "direct and substantial personal
interest in the outcome" that is necessary to challenge
whether that jurisdiction was in fact acquired. Chicago
v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., 357 U.S. 77.
Appellants charge that this judgment is offensive to the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
because the Florida court was without jurisdiction.
There is no suggestion that the court failed to employ a
means of notice reasonably calculated to inform
nonresident defendants of the pending proceedings,9 or
denied them an opportunity to be heard in defense of
their interests.10 The alleged defect is the absence of
those [357 U.S. 246] "affiliating circumstances"11 without
which the courts of a State may not enter a judgment
imposing obligations on persons (jurisdiction in
personam) or affecting interests in property (jurisdiction
in rem or quasi in rem).12 While the in rem and in
personam classifications do not exhaust all the situations
that give rise to jurisdiction,13 they are adequate to
describe the affiliating circumstances suggested here,
and accordingly serve as a useful means of approach to
this case.
In rem jurisdiction. Founded on physical power,
McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U.S. 90, 91, the in rem
jurisdiction of a state court is limited by the extent of its
power and by the coordinate authority of sister States.14
The basis of the jurisdiction is the presence of the
subject property within the territorial jurisdiction of the
forum State. Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch 241, 277; Overby
v. Gordon, 177 U.S. 214, 221-222. Tangible property
poses no problem for the application of this rule, but the
situs of [357 U.S. 247] intangibles is often a matter of
controversy.15 In considering restrictions on the power
to tax, this Court has concluded that "jurisdiction" over
intangible property is not limited to a single State. Tax
Commission v. Aldrich, 316 U.S. 174; Curry v.
McCanless, 307 U.S. 357. Whether the type of
"jurisdiction" with which this opinion deals may be
exercised by more than one State we need not decide.
The parties seem to assume that the trust assets that
form the subject matter of this action16 were located in
Delaware and not in Florida. We can see nothing in the
record contrary to that assumption, or sufficient to
establish a situs in Florida.17
The Florida court held that the presence of the subject
property was not essential to its jurisdiction. Authority
over the probate and construction of its domiciliary's
will, under which the assets might pass, was thought
sufficient [357 U.S. 248] to confer the requisite
jurisdiction.18 But jurisdiction cannot be predicated
upon the contingent role of this Florida will. Whatever
the efficacy of a so-called "in rem" jurisdiction over
assets admittedly passing under a local will, a State
acquires no in rem jurisdiction to adjudicate the validity
of inter vivos dispositions simply because its decision
might augment an estate passing under a will probated
in its courts. If such a basis of jurisdiction were
sustained, probate courts would enjoy nationwide
service of process to adjudicate interests in property
with which [357 U.S. 249] neither the State nor the
decedent could claim any affiliation. The settlordecedent's
Florida domicile is equally unavailing as a
basis for jurisdiction over the trust assets. For the
purpose of jurisdiction in rem the maxim that
personality has its situs at the domicile of its owner19 is a
fiction of limited utility. Green v. Van Buskirk, 7 Wall.
139, 150. The maxim is no less suspect when the
domicile is that of a decedent. In analogous cases, this
Court has rejected the suggestion that the probate
decree of the State where decedent was domiciled has an
in rem effect on personalty outside the forum State that
could render it conclusive on the interests of
nonresidents over whom there was no personal
jurisdiction. Riley v. New York Trust Co., 315 U.S. 343,
353; Baker v. Baker, Eccles & Co., 242 U.S. 394, 401;
Overby v. Gordon, 177 U.S. 214.20 The fact that the
owner is or was domiciled within the forum State is not
a sufficient affiliation with the property upon which to
base jurisdiction in rem. Having concluded that Florida
had no in rem jurisdiction, we proceed to consider
whether a judgment purporting to rest on that basis is
invalid in Florida and must therefore be reversed.
Prior to the Fourteenth Amendment an exercise of
jurisdiction over persons or property outside the forum
State was thought to be an absolute nullity,21 but the
matter [357 U.S. 250] remained a question of state law
over which this Court exercised no authority.22 With
the adoption of that Amendment, any judgment
purporting to bind the person of a defendant over
whom the court had not acquired in personam
jurisdiction was void within the State as well as without.
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714. Nearly a century has
passed without this Court being called upon to apply
that principle to an in rem judgment dealing with
property outside the forum State. The invalidity of such
a judgment within the forum State seems to have been
assumed—and with good reason. Since a State is
forbidden to enter a judgment attempting to bind a
person over whom it has no jurisdiction, it has even less
right to enter a judgment purporting to extinguish the
interest of such a person in property over which the
court has no jurisdiction.23 Therefore, so far as it
purports to rest upon jurisdiction over the trust assets,
the judgment of the Florida court cannot be sustained.
Sadler v. Industrial Trust Co., 327 Mass. 10, 97 N.E.2d
169.
In personam jurisdiction. Appellees' stronger argument
is for in personam jurisdiction over the Delaware
trustee. They urge that the circumstances of this case
amount to sufficient affiliation with the State of Florida
to empower its courts to exercise personal jurisdiction
over this nonresident defendant. Principal reliance is
placed upon McGee v. International Life Ins. Co., 355
U.S. 220. In McGee the Court noted the trend of
expanding personal jurisdiction over nonresidents. As
technological [357 U.S. 251] progress has increased the
flow of commerce between States, the need for
jurisdiction over nonresidents has undergone a similar
increase. At the same time, progress in communications
and transportation has made the defense of a suit in a
foreign tribunal less burdensome. In response to these
changes, the requirements for personal jurisdiction over
nonresidents have evolved from the rigid rule of
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714, to the flexible standard of
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310.
But it is a mistake to assume that this trend heralds the
eventual demise of all restrictions on the personal
jurisdiction of state courts. See Vanderbilt v. Vanderbilt,
354 U.S. 416, 418. Those restrictions are more than a
guarantee of immunity from inconvenient or distant
litigation. They are a consequence of territorial
limitations on the power of the respective States.
However minimal the burden of defending in a foreign
tribunal, a defendant may not be called upon to do so
unless he has had the "minimal contacts" with that State
that are a prerequisite to its exercise of power over him.
See International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S.
310, 319.
We fail to find such contacts in the circumstances of this
case. The defendant trust company has no office in
Florida, and transacts no business there. None of the
trust assets has ever been held or administered in
Florida, and the record discloses no solicitation of
business in that State either in person or by mail. Cf.
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310;
McGee v. International Life Ins. Co., 355 U.S. 220;
Travelers Health Assn. v. Virginia, 339 U.S. 643.
The cause of action in this case is not one that arises out
of an act done or transaction consummated in the forum
State. In that respect, it differs from McGee v.
International Life Ins. Co., 355 U.S. 220, and the cases
there cited. In McGee, the nonresident defendant
solicited a reinsurance agreement with a resident of
California. [357 U.S. 252] The offer was accepted in that
State, and the insurance premiums were mailed from
there until the insured's death. Nothing the interest
California has in providing effective redress for its
residents when nonresident insurers refuse to pay claims
on insurance they have solicited in that State, the Court
upheld jurisdiction because the suit "was based on a
contract which had substantial connection with that
State." In contrast, this action involves the validity of an
agreement that was entered without any connection
with the forum State. The agreement was executed in
Delaware by a trust company incorporated in that State
and a settlor domiciled in Pennsylvania. The first
relationship Florida had to the agreement was years
later when the settlor became domiciled there, and the
trustee remitted the trust income to her in that State.
From Florida Mrs. Donner carried on several bits of
trust administration that may be compared to the
mailing of premiums in McGee.24 But the record
discloses no instance in which the trustee performed any
acts in Florida that bear the same relationship to the
agreement as the solicitation in McGee. Consequently,
this suit cannot be said to be one to enforce an
obligation that arose from a privilege the defendant
exercised in Florida. Cf. International Shoe Co. v.
Washington, 326 U.S. 310, 319. This case is also
different from McGee in that there the State had
enacted special legislation (Unauthorized Insurers
Process Act) to exercise what McGee called its "manifest
interest" in providing effective redress for citizens who
had been injured by nonresidents engaged in an activity
that the State treats as exceptional and subjects to special
regulation. Cf. Travelers Health Assn. v. Virginia, 339
U.S. 643, 647-649;[357 U.S. 253] Doherty & Co. v.
Goodman, 294 U.S. 623, 627; Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U.S.
352.
The execution in Florida of the powers of appointment
under which the beneficiaries and appointees claim does
not give Florida a substantial connection with the
contract on which this suit is based. It is the validity of
the trust agreement, not the appointment, that is at issue
here.25 For the purpose of applying its rule that the
validity of a trust is determined by the law of the State of
its creation, Florida ruled that the appointment
amounted to a "republication" of the original trust
instrument in Florida. For choice-of-law purposes such
a ruling may be justified, but we think it an insubstantial
connection with the trust agreement for purposes of
determining the question of personal jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant. The unilateral activity of those
who claim some relationship with a nonresident
defendant cannot satisfy the requirement of contact
with the forum State. The application of that rule will
vary with the quality and nature of the defendant's
activity, but it is essential in each case that there be some
act by which the defendant purposefully avails itself of
the privilege of conducting activities within the forum
State, thus invoking the benefits and protections of its
laws. International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S.
310, 319. [357 U.S. 254] The settlor's execution in
Florida of her power of appointment cannot remedy the
absence of such an act in this case.
It is urged that because the settlor and most of the
appointees and beneficiaries were domiciled in Florida
the courts of that State should be able to exercise
personal jurisdiction over the nonresident trustees. This
is a non sequitur. With personal jurisdiction over the
executor, legatees, and appointees, there is nothing in
federal law to prevent Florida from adjudicating
concerning the respective rights and liabilities of those
parties. But Florida has not chosen to do so. As we
understand its law, the trustee is an indispensable party
over whom the court must acquire jurisdiction before it
is empowered to enter judgment in a proceeding
affecting the validity of a trust.26 It does not acquire that
jurisdiction by being the "center of gravity" of the
controversy, or the most convenient location for
litigation. The issue is personal jurisdiction, not choice
of law. It is resolved in this case by considering the acts
of the trustee. As we have indicated, they are insufficient
to sustain the jurisdiction.27
Because it sustained jurisdiction over the nonresident
trustees, the Florida Supreme Court found it
unnecessary to determine whether Florida law made
those defendants indispensable parties in the
circumstances of this case. Our conclusion that Florida
was without jurisdiction over the Delaware trustee, or
over the trust corpus held in that State, requires that we
make that determination in the first instance. As we
have noted earlier, the Florida Supreme Court has
repeatedly held that a trustee is an [357 U.S. 255]
indispensable party without whom a Florida court has
no power to adjudicate controversies affecting the
validity of a trust.28 For that reason the Florida
judgment must be reversed not only as to the
nonresident trustees but also as to appellants, over
whom the Florida court admittedly had jurisdiction.
No. 117, The Delaware Certiorari. The same reasons
that compel reversal of the Florida judgment require
affirmance of the Delaware one. Delaware is under no
obligation to give full faith and credit to a Florida
judgment invalid in Florida because offensive to the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 28 U. S.
C. § 1738. Even before passage of the Fourteenth
Amendment this Court sustained state courts in refusing
full faith and credit to judgments entered by courts that
were without jurisdiction over nonresident defendants.
D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11 How. 165; Hall v. Lanning, 91
U.S. 160. See Baker v. Baker, Eccles & Co., 242 U.S. 394;
Riley v. New York Trust Co., 315 U.S. 343. Since
Delaware was entitled to conclude that Florida law made
the trust company an indispensable party, it was under
no obligation to give the Florida judgment any faith and
credit—even against parties over whom Florida's
jurisdiction was unquestioned.
It is suggested that this disposition is improper—that the
Delaware case should be held while the Florida cause is
remanded to give that court an opportunity to
determine whether the trustee is an indispensable party
in the circumstances of this case. But this is not a case
like Herb v. Pitcairn, 324 U.S. 117, where it is
appropriate to remand for the state court to clarify an
ambiguity in its opinion that may reveal an adequate
state ground that would deprive us of power to affect
the result of the controversy. Nor is this a circumstance
where the state [357 U.S. 256] court has never ruled on
the question of state law that we are deciding. Although
the question was left open in this case, there is ample
Florida authority from which we may determine the
appropriate answer.
The rule of primacy to the first final judgment is a
necessary incident to the requirement of full faith and
credit. Our only function is to determine whether
judgments are consistent with the Federal Constitution.
In determining the correctness of Delaware's judgment
we look to what Delaware was entitled to conclude from
the Florida authorities at the time the Delaware court's
judgment was entered. To withhold affirmance of a
correct Delaware judgment until Florida has had time to
rule on another question would be participating in the
litigation instead of adjudicating its outcome.
The judgment of the Delaware Supreme Court is
affirmed, and the judgment of the Florida Supreme
Court is reversed and the cause is remanded for
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.