This appeal concerns the availability of subject matter
jurisdiction for permissive counterclaims. It also
demonstrates the normal utility of early decision of a
motion for class certification. Defendant-Appellant Ford
Motor Credit Company ("Ford Credit") appeals from
the June 14, 2002, judgment of the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Lawrence
M. McKenna, District Judge) dismissing for lack of
jurisdiction its permissive counterclaims against three of
the four Plaintiffs-Appellees and its conditional
counterclaims against members of the putative class that
the Plaintiffs-Appellees seek to certify. Jones v. Ford
Motor Credit Co., No. 00-CV-8330, 2002 WL 1334812
(S.D.N.Y. June 17, 2002). We conclude that
supplemental jurisdiction authorized by 28 U.S.C. §
1367 may be available for the permissive counterclaims,
but that the District Court's discretion under subsection
1367(c) should not be exercised in this case until a ruling
on the Plaintiffs' motion for class certification. We
therefore vacate and remand.
Background
Plaintiffs-Appellees Joyce Jones, Martha L. Edwards,
Lou Cooper, and Vincent E. Jackson ("Plaintiffs"),
individually and as class representatives, sued Ford
Credit alleging racial discrimination under the Equal
Credit Opportunity Act ("ECOA"), 15 U.S.C. § 1691 et
seq. (2003). They had purchased Ford vehicles under
Ford Credit's financing plan. They alleged that the
financing plan discriminated against African-Americans.
Although the financing rate was primarily based on
objective criteria, Ford Credit permitted its dealers to
mark up the rate, using subjective criteria to assess nonrisk
charges. The Plaintiffs alleged that the mark-up
policy penalized African-American customers with
higher rates than those imposed on similarly situated
Caucasian customers.
In its Answer, Ford Credit denied the charges of racial
discrimination and also asserted state-law counterclaims
against Jones, Edwards, and Cooper for the amounts of
their unpaid car loans. Ford Credit alleged that Jones
was in default on [358 F.3d 208] her obligations under
her contract for the purchase of a 1995 Ford Windstar,
and that Edwards and Cooper were in default on
payments for their joint purchase of a 1995 Mercury
Cougar. Additionally, in the event that a class was
certified, Ford Credit asserted conditional counterclaims
against any member of that class who was in default on a
car loan from Ford Credit. The Plaintiffs moved to
dismiss Ford Credit's counterclaims for lack of subject
matter jurisdiction, Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(b)(1), lack of
personal jurisdiction, Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(b)(2), improper
venue, Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(b)(3), and failure to state a claim
upon which relief could be granted, Fed.R.Civ.P.
12(b)(6).
The District Court granted the Plaintiffs' motion and
dismissed Ford Credit's counterclaims, summarizing its
reasons for doing so as follows: "[D]efendant's
counterclaims do not meet the standard for compulsory
counterclaims[, and] ... pursuant to § 1367(c)(4), ... there
are compelling reasons to decline to exercise jurisdiction
over the counterclaims." Jones, 2002 WL 1334812, at *3.
In reaching these conclusions, Judge McKenna
acknowledged some uncertainty. After determining that
the counterclaims were permissive, he expressed doubt
as to the jurisdictional consequence of that
determination. On the one hand, he believed, as the
Plaintiffs maintain, that permissive counterclaims must
be dismissed if they lack an independent basis of federal
jurisdiction. On the other hand, he acknowledged, citing
Solow v. Jenkins, No. 98-CV-8726, 2000 WL 489667, at
*2 (S.D.N.Y. Apr.25, 2000), that "there [was] some
authority to suggest that ... the court should determine,
based on the particular circumstances of the case,
whether it ha[d] authority to exercise supplemental
jurisdiction under § 1367(a)" over a counterclaim,
regardless of whether it was compulsory or permissive.
Jones, 2002 WL 1334812, at *2.
To resolve his uncertainty, Judge McKenna initially
ruled that the counterclaims, being permissive, "must be
dismissed for lack of an independent basis of federal
jurisdiction." Id. He then ruled that, if he was wrong and
if supplemental jurisdiction under section 1367 was
available, he would still dismiss the counterclaims in the
exercise of the discretion subsection 1367(c) gives
district courts. Id. Without explicitly stating on which of
the four subdivisions of subsection 1367(c) he relied,
Judge McKenna gave the following reasons for declining
to exercise supplemental jurisdiction:
[1] The claims and counterclaims arise out of the same occurrence
only in the loosest terms.... There does not exist a logical
relationship between the essential facts [to be proven] in the claim
and those of the counterclaims.
[2] [A]llowing defendant's counterclaims to proceed in this forum
might undermine the ECOA enforcement scheme by discouraging
plaintiffs from bringing ECOA claims due to the fear of
counterclaims.
[3] [T]he interests of judicial economy will not be served by joining
the claim and counterclaims in one suit [because of] what would
most likely be a tremendous number of separate collection actions,
each based on facts specific to the individual plaintiffs involved.
Id. at *2-*3. Judge McKenna stated his belief that it
would be "unfair and inexpedient" to require absent
class members who resided outside of New York to
litigate their debt collection actions in the Southern
District of New York and that there was no good reason
to litigate the debt collection actions in a federal court.
Id. at *3.
[358 F.3d 209] On March 27, 2003, the District Court
entered judgment pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 54(b) in
favor of the Plaintiffs, dismissing Ford Credit's
counterclaims without prejudice. Ford Credit appeals
from this decision.
Discussion
I. Are Ford Credit's Counterclaims Permissive?
Fed.R.Civ.P. 13(a) defines a compulsory counterclaim as
any claim which at the time of serving the pleading the pleader has
against any opposing party, if it arises out of the transaction or
occurrence that is the subject matter of the opposing party's claim
and does not require for its adjudication the presence of third
parties of whom the court cannot obtain jurisdiction.
Such counterclaims are compulsory in the sense that if
they are not raised, they are forfeited. See Critical-Vac
Filtration Corp. v. Minuteman International, Inc., 233
F.3d 697, 699 (2d Cir.2000). Fed.R.Civ.P. 13(b) defines a
permissive counterclaim as "any claim against an
opposing party not arising out of the transaction or
occurrence that is the subject matter of the opposing
party's claim."
Whether a counterclaim is compulsory or permissive
turns on whether the counterclaim "arises out of the
transaction or occurrence that is the subject matter of
the opposing party's claim," and this Circuit has long
considered this standard met when there is a "logical
relationship" between the counterclaim and the main
claim. See United States v. Aquavella, 615 F.2d 12, 22
(2d Cir.1979).1 Although the "logical relationship" test
does not require "an absolute identity of factual
backgrounds," id. (internal citation omitted), the
"`essential facts of the claims [must be] so logically
connected that considerations of judicial economy and
fairness dictate that all the issues be resolved in one
lawsuit.'" Critical-Vac, 233 F.3d at 699 (emphasis
omitted) (quoting Adam v. Jacobs, 950 F.2d 89, 92 (2d
Cir.1991)); see also Harris v. Steinem, 571 F.2d 119, 123
(2d Cir.1978); United Artists Corp. v. Masterpiece
Productions, Inc., 221 F.2d 213, 216 (2d Cir.1955).
We agree with the District Court that the debt
collection counterclaims were permissive rather than
compulsory. The Plaintiffs' ECOA claim centers on Ford
Credit's mark-up policy, based on subjective factors,
which allegedly resulted in higher finance charges on
their purchase contracts than on those of similarly
situated White customers. Ford Credit's debt collection
counterclaims are related to those purchase contracts,
but not to any particular clause or rate. Rather, the debt
collection counterclaims concern the individual
Plaintiffs' non-payment after the contract price was set.
Thus, the relationship between the counterclaims and
the ECOA claim is "logical" only in the sense that the
sale, allegedly on discriminatory credit terms, was the
"but for" cause of the non-payment. That is not the sort
of [358 F.3d 210] relationship contemplated by our case
law on compulsory counterclaims. The essential facts for
proving the counterclaims and the ECOA claim are not
so closely related that resolving both sets of issues in one
lawsuit would yield judicial efficiency. Indeed, Ford
Credit does not even challenge the ruling that its
counterclaims are permissive.
II. Is There Jurisdiction over the Permissive
Counterclaims?
For several decades federal courts have asserted that
permissive counterclaims require an independent basis
of jurisdiction, i.e., that the counterclaim must be
maintainable in a federal district court on some
jurisdictional basis that would have sufficed had it been
brought in a separate action. The origin of this
proposition, the questioning of it before the statutory
authorization of supplemental jurisdiction in section
1367, and the impact of that provision upon the
proposition all merit careful consideration.
(A) Origin of the independent basis doctrine. The first
suggestion of the requirement of an independent basis
for permissive counterclaims is believed to have
appeared in Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co. of
America v. National Electric Signaling Co., 206 F. 295
(E.D.N.Y.1913), a case involving former Equity Rule 30.
See Thomas F. Green, Jr., Federal Jurisdiction over
Counterclaims, 48 Nw. U.L.Rev. 271, 283 (1953). That
rule distinguished in its two parts between what we
would now call compulsory counterclaims "arising out
of the transaction which is the subject matter of the suit"
and what we would now call permissive counterclaims
"which might be the subject of an independent suit in
equity." Equity Rule 30, quoted in Moore v. New York
Cotton Exchange, 270 U.S. 593, 609, 46 S.Ct. 367, 70
L.Ed. 750 (1926). In Moore, the Supreme Court ruled
that the counterclaim in that case bore a sufficient
relation to the underlying transaction under the first
part of the equity rule to be properly within federal
jurisdiction and explicitly declined to "consider the point
that, under the second branch [of the rule], federal
jurisdiction independent of the original bill must
appear." Id.
By 1944, our Court somewhat tentatively observed that
"[i]t seems to be accepted that a permissive counterclaim
... is not ancillary and requires independent grounds of
jurisdiction." Lesnik v. Public Industrials Corp., 144 F.2d
968, 976 n. 10 (2d Cir.1944) (citations omitted). We
stated the proposition more forcefully two years later in
Libbey-Owens-Ford Glass Co. v. Sylvania Industrial
Corp., 154 F.2d 814, 816 (2d Cir.1946), although our
statement, like most of the language in the early cases
concerning the proposition, was dictum.
Our first holding that independent jurisdiction is
required for a permissive counterclaim occurred in
1968. See O'Connell v. Erie Lackawanna R.R., 391 F.2d
156, 163 (2d Cir.1968). Six years later, the Supreme
Court stated, "If a counterclaim is compulsory, the
federal court will have ancillary jurisdiction over it even
though ordinarily it would be a matter for a state court,"
Baker v. Gold Seal Liquors, Inc., 417 U.S. 467, 469 n. 1,
94 S.Ct. 2504, 41 L.Ed.2d 243 (1974) (emphasis added),
apparently implying that ancillary jurisdiction is not
available for a permissive counterclaim.
Notably absent from this evolution of the case law is a
reasoned explanation of why independent jurisdiction
should be needed for permissive counterclaims. One
early decision hinted at a reason by suggesting that the
then restrictive rules concerning joinder of claims were
applicable whether the claims were sought to be added
[358 F.3d 211] by a plaintiff or a defendant. See Electric
Boat Co. v. Lake Torpedo Boat Co., 215 F. 377, 381
(D.N.J.1914). Likely also influencing the emergence of
the doctrine was concern that, because under Rule 13 all
counterclaims that are not compulsory are permissive,
requiring independent jurisdiction was necessary to
prevent federal court adjudication of every conceivable
non-compulsory counterclaim that a defendant might
happen to have against a plaintiff, some of which might
be totally inappropriate for federal jurisdiction. A wife's
federal law suit against her husband for a declaration of
rights as a joint author, for example, ought not to be
vehicle for his counterclaim seeking a divorce. Perhaps
lurking beneath the surface of the casual statements
about an independent jurisdiction requirement was
apprehension that some counterclaims lacking such a
basis would extend the lawsuit beyond Article III's
limiting scope of "cases and controversies."
(B) Questioning the doctrine prior to section 1367. The
first challenge to the independent jurisdiction
requirement appeared in Professor Green's article in
1953. See Thomas F. Green, Jr., Federal Jurisdiction
over Counterclaims, 48 Nw. U.L.Rev. 271, 283 (1953).
He mounted a powerful argument against the doctrine,
demonstrating how it emerged from unreasoned dicta
into unexplained holdings and why it was an
unwarranted deviation from the general principle that
"[t]wo court actions should not be encouraged where
one will do." Id. at 271 (footnote omitted). He
particularly noted the incursion on the doctrine, well
established even in 1953 when he wrote, that permitted
some set-offs to be interposed against a plaintiff's claim
in the absence of independent jurisdiction. Professor
Green questioned why a defendant who can present
evidence of a set-off that reduces a plaintiff's judgment
to zero should not be able to obtain a counterclaim
judgment to which his evidence would entitle him in a
separate action. Id. at 287-88.
In 1970, Judge Friendly, the acknowledged jurisdictional
scholar of our Court, changed his mind about the
independent jurisdiction doctrine and "reject[ed] the
conventional learning, which [he] followed too readily
in O'Connell." United States v. Heyward-Robinson Co.,
430 F.2d 1077, 1088 (2d Cir.1970) (Friendly, J.,
concurring).2 Judge Friendly noted Professor Green's
persuasiveness: "The reasons why the conventional view
is wrong are set out in detail in [Professor Green's
article], and nothing would be gained by repetition." Id.
In 1984, the Third Circuit, in a thoughtful opinion by
Judge Becker, rejected the view that independent
jurisdiction is required for all permissive counterclaims.
See Ambromovage v. United Mine Workers, 726 F.2d
972 (3d Cir.1984). Considering whether jurisdiction was
available for a set-off, Judge Becker declined to uphold
jurisdiction based on the previously recognized set-off
exception to the independent jurisdiction requirement,3
and instead argued [358 F.3d 212] broadly for ancillary
jurisdiction, with some exceptions,4 over set-offs and
permissive counterclaims that satisfy the test of sharing
a "common nucleus of operative fact," United Mine
Workers v. Gibbs, 383 U.S. 715, 725, 86 S.Ct. 1130, 16
L.Ed.2d 218 (1966), with the plaintiff's underlying claim.
Ambromovage, 726 F.2d at 988-89. "We conclude that
the determination that a counterclaim is permissive
within the meaning of Rule 13 is not dispositive of the
constitutional question whether there is federal
jurisdiction over the counterclaim." Id. at 990.
(C) The impact of section 1367. The judge-made
doctrine of ancillary jurisdiction, which had been
invoked to provide a jurisdictional basis for compulsory
counterclaims, was given statutory undergirding when
Congress added section 1367 to Title 28 in 1990. See
Judicial Improvements Act of 1990, Pub.L. No. 101-650,
Title III, § 310(c), 104 Stat. 5114 (1990). The newly
labeled "supplemental" jurisdiction explicitly extended
federal courts' authority to "all other claims" in a civil
action "so related to claims in the action within [the
district court's] original jurisdiction that they form part
of the same case or controversy under Article III of the
United States Constitution." 28 U.S.C. § 1367(a) (2000).
The explicit extension to the limit of Article III of a
federal court's jurisdiction over "all other claims" sought
to be litigated with an underlying claim within federal
jurisdiction recast the jurisdictional basis of permissive
counterclaims into constitutional terms.5 After section
1367, it is no [358 F.3d 213] longer sufficient for courts
to assert, without any reason other than dicta or even
holdings from the era of judge-created ancillary
jurisdiction, that permissive counterclaims require
independent jurisdiction. Rising to the challenge, after
enactment of section 1367, in a case strikingly similar to
our pending case, the Seventh Circuit vacated the
dismissal of a permissive counterclaim and remanded
for exercise of the discretion contemplated by section
1367. Channell v. Citicorp National Services, Inc., 89
F.3d 379 (7th Cir.1996). Channell involved a creditor's
counterclaims to collect debts in a class action alleging
violations of the Consumer Leasing Act, 15 U.S.C. §§
1667-1667e (2000). As Judge Easterbrook stated, "Now
that Congress has codified the supplemental jurisdiction
in § 1367(a), courts should use the language of the
statute to define the extent of their powers." Id. at 385.
He viewed section 1367's reach to the constitutional
limits of Article III as requiring only "[a] loose factual
connection between the claims," id. (internal quotation
marks omitted), a standard that appears to be broader
than the Gibbs test of "a common nucleus of operative
facts," appropriate for permitting joinder of a plaintiff's
non-federal claim. In Channell, he readily found the
requisite "loose connection" to exist between the
Consumer Leasing Act claim and the debt collection
counterclaim. Id. at 385-86.
We share the view that section 1367 has displaced,
rather than codified, whatever validity inhered in the
earlier view that a permissive counterclaim requires
independent jurisdiction (in the sense of federal
question or diversity jurisdiction). The issue in this case
therefore becomes whether supplemental jurisdiction is
available for Ford Credit's counterclaims.
III. Application of Section 1367's Standards for
Supplemental Jurisdiction
Whether or not the Gibbs "common nucleus" standard
provides the outer limit of an Article III "case,"6 and is
therefore a requirement for entertaining a permissive
counterclaim that otherwise lacks a jurisdictional basis,
the facts of Ford Credit's counterclaims and those of the
Plaintiffs' ECOA claims satisfy that standard, even
though the relationship is not such as would make the
counterclaims compulsory. See Channell, 89 F.3d at
385-86.7 The [358 F.3d 214] counterclaims and the
underlying claim bear a sufficient factual relationship (if
one is necessary) to constitute the same "case" within the
meaning of Article III and hence of section 1367. Both
the ECOA claim and the debt collection claims originate
from the Plaintiffs' decisions to purchase Ford cars.
Satisfying the constitutional "case" standard of
subsection 1367(a), however, does not end the inquiry a
district court is obliged to make with respect to
permissive counterclaims. A trial court must consider
whether any of the four grounds set out in subsection
1367(c) are present to an extent that would warrant the
exercise of discretion to decline assertion of
supplemental jurisdiction.8 Subsection 1367(c) provides:
The district courts may decline to exercise supplemental
jurisdiction over a claim under subsection (a) if —
(1) the claim raises a novel or complex issue of State law,
(2) the claim substantially predominates over the claim or claims
over which the district court has original jurisdiction,
(3) the district court has dismissed all claims over which it has
original jurisdiction, or
(4) in exceptional circumstances, there are other compelling reasons
for declining jurisdiction.
We have indicated that, where at least one of the
subsection 1367(c) factors is applicable, a district court
should not decline to exercise supplemental jurisdiction
unless it also determines that doing so would not
promote the values articulated in Gibbs, 383 U.S. at 726,
86 S.Ct. 1130: economy, convenience, fairness, and
comity. See Itar-Tass Russian News Agency v. Russian
Kurier, Inc., 140 F.3d 442, 445-47 (2d Cir.1998)
(rejecting approach of 1st, 3rd, 7th, and D.C. Circuits in
favor of approach adhered to by 8th, 9th, and 11th
Circuits).
Clearly the exception set forth in subsection 1367(c)(1)
does not apply since Ford Credit's counterclaims do not
raise a novel or complex issue of state law, but merely a
standard contract question. Nor does subsection
1367(c)(3) apply since the District Court has not
dismissed all claims over which it has original
jurisdiction. That leaves subsections 1367(c)(2),
permitting declination of supplemental jurisdiction
where "the [counter]claim substantially predominates
over the claim or claims over which the district court
has original jurisdiction," and 1367(c)(4), permitting
declination "in exceptional circumstances, [where] there
are other compelling reasons for declining jurisdiction."
The District Court apparently based its decision on
subsection 1367(c)(4), since it cited only that subsection
in its opinion, but some of the concerns it discussed
implicate the substantial predomination analysis of
subsection 1367(c)(2) as well.
[358 F.3d 215] In Channell, Judge Easterbrook canvassed
the competing considerations bearing on whether the
subsection (c)(2) and (c)(4) factors might permit
declination of supplemental jurisdiction over collection
counterclaims interposed against a claim under a
consumer protection statute. See Channell, 89 F.3d at
386-87. Acknowledging a district court's discretion, the
Seventh Circuit ultimately remanded because
"[a]rguments under § 1367(c) are addressed to the
district court's discretion." Id. at 387. In Channell,
however, the class had been certified, class members had
been notified, and some had opted out. Id. at 384. In our
case, a ruling on the class motion has not yet been made.
Whether Ford Credit's counterclaims "predominate[ ]"
over the Plaintiffs' claims and whether there are
"exceptional circumstances" for declining jurisdiction
cannot properly be determined until a decision has been
made on the Plaintiffs' motion for class certification.
Both the applicability of subsections 1367(c)(2) and (4),
and the exercise of a district court's discretion in the
event either or both are ruled applicable will be
significantly influenced by the existence of a large class
as sought by the Plaintiffs. The District Court's
conclusions that it would be "unfair and inexpedient" to
require out-of-state class members to litigate Ford's
state law debt claims in New York, and that allowing the
counterclaims might dissuade potential plaintiffs from
joining the class, were therefore premature.9
Class certification is to be decided "at an early
practicable time" after the commencement of a suit.
Fed.R.Civ.P. 23(c)(1) (amended Dec. 1, 2003). See 5
James Wm. Moore et al., Moore's Federal Practice-Civil
§ 23.61 (3d ed.2003); cf. Cottone v. Blum, 571 F.Supp.
437, 440-41 (W.D.N.Y.1983) (dismissing class action
for, among other things, failure to move for class
certification within 60 days of filing of complaint, as
required by local rule). That course is especially
important in this case. Accordingly, we remand this case
with directions to rule on the class certification motion,
and then, in light of that ruling, to proceed to determine
whether to exercise or decline supplemental jurisdiction.
On remand, the District Court should exercise its
discretion pursuant to subsection 1367(c) in light of our
decision in Itar-Tass, particularly the caution there
expressed concerning use of subsection 1367(c)(4), 140
F.3d at 448. In order to decline jurisdiction on this basis,
the District Court should identify truly compelling
circumstances that militate against exercising
jurisdiction. Id. Moreover, if the Court certifies the class
action, its substantial predomination analysis under
subsection 1367(c)(2) should take into account the [358
F.3d 216] methods by which the class action might be
managed in order to prevent the state law counterclaims
from predominating. By bifurcating the litigation,
certifying a limited class (perhaps only in-state
plaintiffs), or utilizing other management tools, the
District Court might be able to structure the litigation in
such a way as to prevent the state law claims from
predominating over the federal basis of the action, while
maintaining the advantages inherent in providing a
forum in which all of the litigants' claims can be
litigated.
Conclusion
The judgment dismissing Ford Credit's counterclaims is
vacated, and the case is remanded for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.