The problem in this case is of important concern to the
effective administration of justice in the federal courts.
At issue is the scope of 28 U. S. C. § 1404 (a), providing
for the transfer of litigation from one Federal District
Court to another. The main federal venue statutes
necessarily deal with classes of cases, without regard to
the occasional situation in which a normally appropriate
venue may operate vexatiously. Section 1404 (a) was
devised to avoid needless hardship and even miscarriage
of justice by empowering district judges to recognize
special circumstances calling for special relief. It
provides that an action, although begun in a place falling
within the normally applicable venue rubric may be sent
by the District Court to go forward in another district
much more appropriate when judged by the criteria of
judicial justice.
The terms of § 1404 (a) are as follows:
"For the convenience of parties and witnesses, in the interest of
justice, a district court may transfer any civil action to any other
district or division where it might have been brought."
The part of § 1404 (a) the meaning of which is at issue
here is its last phrase, "any other district or division
where it [the action] might have been brought." The
significance of this phrase is this: even though a place be
found to be an overwhelmingly more appropriate forum
from the standpoint of "convenience" and "justice," the
litigation may not be sent to go forward there unless it is
a [363 U.S. 352] place where the action "might have been
brought." Upon the scope to be given this phrase thus
depends almost entirely the effectiveness of § 1404 (a) to
insure an appropriate place of trial, when the action is
begun in an oppressive forum.
One would have to be singularly unmindful of the
treachery and versatility of our language to deny that as
a mere matter of English the words "where it might
have been brought" may carry more than one meaning.
For example, under Rule 3 of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure, civil actions are "commenced" by filing a
complaint with the court. As a matter of English there is
no reason why "commenced" so used should not be
thought to be synonymous with "brought" as used in §
1404 (a), so that an action "might have been brought" in
any district where a complaint might have been filed, or
perhaps only in districts with jurisdiction over the
subject matter of the litigation. As a matter of English
alone, the phrase might just as well be thought to refer
either to those places where the defendant "might have
been" served with process, or to those places where the
action "might have been brought" in light of the
applicable venue provision, for those provisions speak
generally of where actions "may be brought." Or the
phrase may be thought as a matter of English alone to
refer to those places where the action "might have been
brought" in light of the applicable statute of limitations,
or other provisions preventing a court from reaching
the merits of the litigation. On the face of its words
alone, the phrase may refer to any one of these
considerations, i. e., venue, amenability to service, or
period of limitations, to all of them or to none of them,
or to others as well.1 And to [363 U.S. 353] the extent
that these are matters which may or may not be raised at
the defendant's election, the English of the phrase surely
does not tell whether the defendant's actual or potential
waiver or failure to raise such objections is to be taken
into account in determining whether a district is one in
which the action "might have been brought," or whether
the phrase refers only to those districts where the
plaintiff "might have brought" the action even over a
timely objection on the part of the defendant, that is,
where he had "a right" to bring it.
The particular problem in the present case has been a
relatively commonplace one in the application of § 1404
(a), and it demonstrates the failure of the words of the
section, considered merely as words, to define with
precision those places where an action "might have been
brought." The problem here is this. Action was brought
by plaintiff in district A, a proper venue under the
applicable venue statute. Defendant objected and moved
for transfer to district B, submitting that in the interests
of "convenience" and "justice" to all concerned the
action should go forward there instead of in district A.
District B, however, is one in which, had the complaint
been [363 U.S. 354] filed there, the plaintiff would have
been unable without the defendant's consent to serve
him with process. In addition, the defendant in District
B, had the complaint been filed there, would have had
an objection to the venue, under the applicable venue
statute. In moving for transfer to B, the defendant
stipulates to waiving all objections to venue there and to
submitting his person to the jurisdiction of District
Court B, should transfer be ordered. The District Court
in A agrees that B, not A, is the appropriate place for
trial and is disposed to transfer the action there, for in
light of the defendant's stipulation there is no way in
which the plaintiff can be prejudiced by the lack of
venue in B or the impossibility, as an original matter, of
serving defendant there. Is B a place where the action
"might have been brought" so that the transfer can be
effected? The Court finds it "plain," from the words of
the phrase themselves, that B is not such a place, and
that, for it, is the end of the matter.
We would all agree that B would be a place where the
action "might have been brought" if it were a place of
statutory venue, if the defendant had always been
amenable to process there, and if B had no other special
characteristics whereby the defendant could prevent
consideration there of the merits of the cause of action.
Almost every statute has a core of indisputable
application, and this statute plainly applies to permit
transfer to a place where there could never have been
any objection to the maintenance of the action. But is it
clear, as the Court would have it, that, as a mere matter
of English, because potential objections peculiar to the
forum would have been present in B, it is not to be
deemed a place where the action "might have been
brought," although defendant not only might but is
prepared to waive, as he effectively may, such
objections?
[363 U.S. 355] I submit that it is not clear from the words
themselves, and the experience in the lower courts gives
compelling proof of it. At least 28 District Courts,
located in all parts of the Nation, have had to give
concrete meaning to the set of words in controversy.
These are the judges who are, to use a familiar but
appropriate phrase, on the firing line, who are in much
more intimate, continuous touch with the needs for the
effective functioning of the federal judicial system at the
trial level than is this Court. They have not found the
last phrase of § 1404 (a) unambiguous. There has been
anything but the substantial uniformity of views to be
expected in the application of a clear and unambiguous
direction. There have been severe differences with
regard to whether § 1404 (a) is ever available as a
remedy to a plaintiff forced into an inconvenient forum,
and if so under what conditions.2 With regard to
defendants' motions to transfer, it has been held that
"brought" in § 1404 (a) is synonymous with
"commenced" in Rule 3 so that transfer may be made to
virtually any district dictated by "convenience" and
"justice."3 It has been held that the phrase is to be
applied as if it read "where it might have been brought
now, " thus giving full effect to a waiver of objections by
defendant [363 U.S. 356] in moving for transfer.4 It has
been said, on the other hand, that "[s]ection 1404 (a) . . .
contemplates statutory venue and not consent venue."5
With regard to the particular problem in this case,
which has arisen most often, a majority of the District
Courts which have considered the problem have ruled
against the Court's "plain" meaning of the statute. At
least seven District Courts have ruled that, because of
the defendant's consent to have the action go forward
there, a district is one where the action "might have
been brought," even though it is a place where the
defendant might either have objected to the venue, or
avoided process, or both had the action been brought
there originally.6 At least three District Courts have held
or implied to the contrary, that the defendant's consent
is not relevant, and that such a district cannot be one
where the action "might have been brought."7 Two
others have simply denied motions by the defendant on
the ground that the transferee court was not one where
the action "might have been brought," without
discussing whether [363 U.S. 357] in moving for transfer
the defendant had consented to go forward in the
transferee court, or what the effect of that consent
would be.8 Two District Courts have granted the
defendants' motion to transfer, making the matter turn
on the presence of a number of defendants and the fact
that some of them were suable as of right in the
transferee court.9 Two others have found the
amenability of the defendant to service of process in the
place to which transfer is proposed to be wholly
irrelevant to whether the action "might have been
brought" there, and have ordered transfer to such a
place on the plaintiff's motion even though the
defendant did not consent.10 It simply cannot be said in
the face of this experience that the words of the statute
are so compellingly precise, so unambiguous, that §
1404 (a) as a matter of "plain words" does not apply in
the present case.
The experience in the Courts of Appeals is also
revealing. Of the six cases where defendants have moved
for transfer, in only two has it been held that the
defendant's consent to the transfer is not relevant in
determining whether the place to which transfer is
proposed is a place where the action "might have been
brought," and these are the two decisions of the Seventh
Circuit now before us. Blaski v. Hoffman, 260 F.2d 317
(C. A. 7th Cir. 1958); Behimer v. Sullivan, 261 F.2d 467
(C. A. 7th Cir. 1958). [363 U.S. 358] The Third Circuit
has ruled in favor of transfer on the defendant's motion
to a place where the defendant might have objected to
the venue, Paramount Pictures v. Rodney, 186 F.2d 111
(C. A. 3d Cir. 1951). The First and Second Circuits have
ruled in favor of transfer on defendant's motion to a
place where the defendant could not have been served
with process, Torres v. Walsh, 221 F.2d 319 (C. A. 2d
Cir. 1955); In re Josephson, 218 F.2d 174 (C. A. 1st Cir.
1954). And the Second and Fifth Circuits have ruled in
favor of transfer on defendant's motion to a place where
there was neither statutory venue nor a chance to serve
the defendant, Anthony v. Kaufman, 193 F.2d 85 (C. A.
2d Cir. 1951); Ex parte Blaski, 245 F.2d 737 (C. A. 5th
Cir. 1957). All these courts have considered the meaning
of the phrase in detail and have held that the place to
which transfer was proposed was a place where the
action "might have been brought." Thus the Court's
view of the meaning of § 1404 (a) is contrary to the
rulings of every Court of Appeals but one which has
considered the problem, and is contrary to the view of
more than half the District Courts as well. Yet the Court
maintains that the statute unambiguously means what
its says it does.
Surely, the Court creates its own verbal prison in
holding that "the plain words" of § 1404 (a) dictate that
transfer may not be made in this case although transfer
concededly was in the interest of "convenience" and
"justice." Moreover, the Court, while finding the
statutory words "plain," decides the case by applying, not
the statutory language, but a formula of words found
nowhere in the statute, namely, whether plaintiffs had
"a right to bring these actions in the respective
transferee districts." This is the Court's language, not
that of Congress. Although it is of course a
grammatically plausible interpretation of the phrase
"where it might have been brought," it has been, I
submit, established that it is not [363 U.S. 359] by any
means the only plausible interpretation. In fact, the
Court's rephrasing, as distinguished from Congress'
phrasing, gives the narrowest possible scope to the
operation of § 1404 (a). There can be expected to be
very few, if any, alternative forums in a given case
where the plaintiff has a "right" to sue, considering that
that means places of unobjectionable venue where the
defendant is amenable to service of process and where
there are no other impediments such as a statute of
limitations which the defendant can rely on to defeat the
action.
This case, then, cannot be decided, and is not decided,
by the short way of a mechanical application of
Congress' words to the situation. Indeed, it would be
extraordinary if a case which could be so decided were
deemed worthy of this Court's attention twelve years
after the applicable statute was enacted. To conclude, as
the Court does, that the transferee court is inexorably
designated by the inherent force of the words "where it
might have been brought" is to state a conclusion that
conceals the process by which the meaning is, as a
matter of choice, extracted from the words.
The problem in this case is one of resolving an
ambiguity by all the considerations relevant to resolving
an ambiguity concerning the conduct of litigation, and
more particularly the considerations that are relevant to
resolving an ambiguous direction for the fair conduct of
litigation in the federal judicial system. At the crux of
the business, as I see it, is the realization that we are
concerned here not with a question of a limitation upon
the power of a federal court but with the place in which
that court may exercise its power. We are dealing, that
is, not with the jurisdiction of the federal courts, which
is beyond the power of litigants to confer, but with the
locality of a lawsuit, the rules regulating which are
designed mainly for the convenience of the litigants.
"[T]he locality of a law suit—the place where judicial
authority may be [363 U.S. 360] exercised—though
defined by legislation relates to the convenience of
litigants and as such is subject to their disposition. . . . [A
venue statute] `merely accords to the defendant a
personal privilege respecting the venue, or place of suit,
which he may assert, or may waive, at his election.'
Commercial Ins. Co. v. Stone Co., 278 U.S. 177, 179."
Neirbo Co. v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 308 U.S.
165, 168. And in that case the Court was merely
reiterating considerations already forcefully set out in
General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore R. Co., 260 U.S.
261, and Lee v. Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co., 260 U.S. 653.
This basic difference "between the court's power and the
litigant's convenience is historic in the federal courts."
308 U. S., at 168.
Applying these considerations to a problem under a
different statute but relevant to the present one, namely,
whether removal from a state court to a federal court
might be had upon the motion of the defendant when
the federal court was one where the venue would have
been subject to objection, had the action originally been
brought there, this Court, speaking unanimously
through Mr. Justice Van Devanter, discriminatingly
reminded that "[i]t therefore cannot be affirmed broadly
that this suit could not have been brought . . . [in the
federal court] but only that it could not have been
brought and maintained in that court over a seasonable
objection by the company to being sued there." This
analysis has striking application to the present problem
under § 1404 (a), and it is also relevant here that the
Court sanctioned removal in that case to a federal court
with no statutory venue, partly because "there could be
no purpose in extending to removals the personal
privilege accorded to defendants by [the venue statutes]
. . . since removals are had only at the instance of
defendants." General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore R.
Co., 260 U.S. 261, 273, 275. See also, to the same effect,
Lee v. Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co., 260 U.S. 653, [363
U.S. 361] overruling Ex parte Wisner, 203 U.S. 449, and
qualifying In re Moore, 209 U.S. 490. The rule that
statutory venue rules governing the place of trial do not
affect the power of a federal court to entertain an action,
or of the plaintiff to bring it, but only afford the
defendant a privilege to object to the place chosen, is
now enacted as part of the Judicial Code. 28 U. S. C. §
1406 (b). And of course it needs no discussion that a
defendant is always free voluntarily to submit his person
to the jurisdiction of a federal court.
In light of the nature of rules governing the place of trial
in the federal system, as thus expounded and codified, as
distinguished from limitation upon the power of the
federal courts to adjudicate, what are the competing
considerations here? The transferee court in this case
plainly had and has jurisdiction to adjudicate this action
with the defendant's acquiescence. As the defendant,
whose privilege it is to object to the place of trial, has
moved for transfer, and has acquiesced to going forward
with the litigation in the transferee court, it would
appear presumptively, unless there are strong
considerations otherwise, that there is no impediment
to effecting the transfer so long as "convenience" and
"justice" dictate that it be made. It does not counsel
otherwise that here the plaintiff is to be sent to a venue
to which he objects, whereas ordinarily, when the
defendant waives his privilege to object to the place of
trial, it is to acquiesce in the plaintiff's choice of forum.
This would be a powerful argument if, under § 1404 (a),
a transfer were to be made whenever requested by the
defendant. Such is not the case, and this bears emphasis.
A transfer can be made under § 1404 (a) to a place
where the action "might have been brought" only when
"convenience" and "justice" so dictate, not whenever the
defendant so moves. A legitimate objection by the
plaintiff to proceeding in the transferee forum will
presumably be reflected in a decision that [363 U.S. 362]
the interest of justice does not require the transfer, and
so it becomes irrelevant that the proposed place of
transfer is deemed one where the action "might have
been brought." If the plaintiff's objection to proceedings
in the transferee court is not consonant with the
interests of justice, a good reason is wanting why the
transfer should not be made.
On the other hand, the Court's view restricts transfer,
when concededly warranted in the interest of justice, to
protect no legitimate interest on the part of the plaintiff.
And by making transfer turn on whether the defendant
could have been served with process in the transferee
district on the day the action was brought, the Court's
view may create difficult problems in ascertaining that
fact, especially in the case of non-corporate defendants.
These are problems which have no conceivable relation
to the proper administration of a provision meant to
assure the most convenient and just place for trial.
Nor is it necessary to reach the Court's result in order to
preserve an appropriate meaning for the phrase "where
it might have been brought." I fully agree that the final
words of § 1404 (a) are words of limitation upon the
scope of the provision. But to hold as I would that a
district is one where the action "might have been
brought" when the defendant consents to going forward
with the litigation there, does not remove the quality of
those words as a limitation. The words compel the
defendant in effect to waive any objections to going
forward in the transferee district which he might have
had if the action had been brought there, in order to
obtain a transfer. The words therefore insure that
transfer will not be a device for doing the plaintiff out of
any forum in which to proceed, no matter how
inconvenient. The words in any case, plainly limit the
plaintiff's right to seek a transfer when the defendant
does not consent to the change of venue. Moreover, the
words may serve to prevent transfer to [363 U.S. 363]
courts with a lack of federal power to adjudicate the
matter of the dispute which the defendant cannot confer
with his consent.11 In light of the fact that the venue
statutes in Title 28, U. S. C., are phrased in terms of
where the action "may be brought," or in some cases
where it "shall" or "must" be brought,12 the most
obvious limiting significance of the phrase "where it
might have been brought" is that it refers to places
where, under the venue provisions, the action, "may,"
"shall," or "must" be brought assuming the existence of
federal jurisdiction.13 In the meaning of federal venue
provisions as expounded by this Court, and by Congress
in § 1406 (b), these, as has been said, are not only places
where, under the applicable provision, no objection to
the venue is available to the defendant. They are also
places where the defendant consents to be sued.
The relevant legislative history of § 1404 (a) is found in
the statement in the Reviser's Notes, accompanying the
1948 Judicial Code, that § 1404 (a) "was drafted in
accordance with the doctrine of forum non
conveniens."14 Under that doctrine, the remedy for an
inconvenient [363 U.S. 364] forum was not to transfer
the action, but to dismiss it. In Gulf Oil Corp. v. Gilbert,
330 U.S. 501, 506-507, we held that "[i]n all cases in
which the doctrine of forum non conveniens comes into
play, it presupposes at least two forums in which the
defendant is amenable to process; the doctrine furnishes
criteria for choice between them." It is entirely "in
accordance" with this view of the doctrine of forum non
conveniens to hold that transfer may be made at the
instance of the defendant, regardless of the plaintiff's
right as an original matter to sue him in the transferee
court, so long as the defendant stipulates to going
forward with the litigation there. Indeed, to hold
otherwise as the Court does is to limit § 1404 (a) to a
much narrower operation than the nonstatutory
doctrine of forum non conveniens. Investigation has
disclosed several forum non conveniens cases, one of
them in this Court, where dismissal of the action on the
defendant's motion was made upon the condition of the
defendant's voluntary submission to the jurisdiction of
another more convenient forum when that forum was
not available to the plaintiff as of right over the
defendant's objection. See Canada Malting Co. v.
Paterson Steamships, Ltd., 49 F.2d 802, 804, affirmed,
285 U.S. 413, 424; Giatilis v. The Darnie, 171 F.Supp.
751, 754; Bulkley, Dunton Paper Co. v. The Rio Salado,
67 F.Supp. 115, 116; Libby, McNeill & Libby v. Bristol
City Line of Steamships, 41 F.Supp. 386, 389; The City
of Agra, 35 F.Supp. 351; Strassburger v. Singer Mfg.
Co., 263 App. Div. 518, 33 N. Y. Supp. 2d 424; Wendel
v. Hoffman, 258 App. Div. 1084, 18 N. Y. Supp. 2d 96.
See also Cerro de Pasco Copper Corp. v. Knut Knutsen,
187 F.2d 990, and Swift & Co. v. Compania Caribe, 339
U.S. 684, 697-698: "it was improper under the
circumstances here shown to remit a United States
citizen to the courts of a foreign country without
assuring the citizen that respondents would appear in
those courts and that security would be given [363 U.S.
365] equal to what had been obtained by attachment in
the District Court. The power of the District Court to
give a libellant such assurance is shown by Canada
Malting Co. v. Paterson Steamships, Ltd., 285 U.S. 413,
424 [supra]." In view of the familiarity of this device of
dismissing for forum non conveniens when as of right
no other forum was available to plaintiff, upon the
defendant's agreement to appear in the more convenient
forum, it is almost necessary to suppose, in light of the
Reviser's description of § 1404 (a) as "in accordance
with the doctrine of forum non conveniens," that
transfer under § 1404 (a) may likewise be made where
the defendant consents to going forward with the case
in the transferee court.
The only consideration of the Court not resting on the
"plain meaning" of § 1404 (a) is that it would constitute
"gross discrimination" to permit transfer to be made
with the defendant's consent and over the plaintiff's
objection to a district to which the plaintiff could not
similarly obtain transfer over the defendant's objection.
To speak of such a situation as regards this statute as
"discrimination" is a sterile use of the concept. Mutuality
is not an empty or abstract doctrine; it summarizes the
reality of fair dealing between litigants. Transfer cannot
be made under this statute unless it is found to be in the
interest of "convenience" and in the interest of "justice."
Whether a party is in any sense being "discriminated"
against through a transfer is certainly relevant to
whether the interest of justice is being served. If the
interest of justice is being served, as it must be for a
transfer to be made, how can it be said that there is
"discrimination" in any meaningful sense? Moreover,
the transfer provision cannot be viewed in isolation in
finding "discrimination." It, after all, operates to temper
only to a slight degree the enormous "discrimination"
inherent in our system of litigation, whereby the sole
choice of forum, from among those where service is
possible and venue unobjectionable, [363 U.S. 366] is
placed with the plaintiff. The plaintiff may choose from
among these forums at will; under § 1404 (a) the
defendant must satisfy a very substantial burden of
demonstrating where "justice" and "convenience" lie, in
order to have his objection to a forum of hardship, in
the particular situation, respected.
In summary, then, the "plain meaning" of § 1404 (a)
does not conclude the present case against the transfer,
for the statute, as applied in this case, is not "plain" in
meaning one way or another, but contains ambiguities
which must be resolved by considerations relevant to
the problem with which the statute deals. Moreover, the
most obvious significance for the set of words here in
question, considered as self-contained words, is that
they have regard for the limitations contained in the
regular statutory rules of venue. Those rules, it is
beyond dispute, take into account the consent of the
defendant to proceed in the forum, even if it is not a
forum designated by statute. And the doctrine of forum
non conveniens "in accordance with" which § 1404 (a)
was drafted, also took into account the defendant's
consent to proceed in another forum to which he was
not obligated to submit. Nor can a decision against
transfer be rested upon notions of "discrimination" or of
unfairness to the plaintiff in wrenching him out of the
forum of his choice to go forward in a place to which he
objects. In the proper administration of § 1404 (a), such
consequences cannot survive the necessity to find
transfer to be in the interests of "convenience" and
"justice," before it can be made. On the other hand, to
restrict transfer as the Court does to those very few
places where the defendant was originally amenable to
process and could have had no objection to the venue is
drastically to restrict the number of situations in which
§ 1404 (a) may serve the interests of justice by relieving
the parties from a vexatious forum. And it is to restrict
the operation of the section capriciously, for [363 U.S.
367] such a drastic limitation is not counseled by any
legitimate interest of the plaintiff, or by any interest of
the federal courts in their jurisdiction. The defendant's
interest of course is not involved because he is the
movant for transfer.
The essence of this case is to give fair scope to the role
of § 1404 (a) in our system of venue regulations, that is,
a system whereby litigation may be brought in only a
limited number of federal districts, which are chosen
generally upon the basis of presumed convenience. Two
extremes are possible in the administration of such a
system, duly mindful of the fact that in our
jurisprudence venue does not touch the power of the
court. (1) All venue may be determined solely by rigid
rules, which the defendant may invoke and which work
for convenience in the generality of cases. In such an
extreme situation there would be no means of
responding to the special circumstances of particular
cases when the rigid venue rules are inappropriate. (2)
At the other extreme there may be no rigid venue
provisions, but all venue may be determined, upon the
defendant's objection to the plaintiff's choice of forum,
by a finding of fact in each case of what is the most
convenient forum from the point of view of the parties
and the court. The element of undesirability in the
second extreme is that it involves too much preliminary
litigation; it is desirable in that it makes venue
responsive to actual convenience. The first extreme is
undesirable for according too little, in fact nothing, to
actual convenience when the case is a special one; it is
desirable in that it does away with preliminary litigation.
If anything is plain, from its history and from its words,
it is that § 1404 (a) means to afford a balance, a
compromise, between these two extremes. It is in this
spirit that its provisions must be read. In the ordinary
course the regular venue rules are to prevail, with no
preliminary litigation to determine the actual
convenience. But the [363 U.S. 368] statute means to
allow for cases where the ordinary rules are found to
work a great hardship; there, actual convenience is to
prevail. We should therefore not, as the Court has done,
impose limitations upon the operation of § 1404 (a)
which have no relation to ordinary considerations
governing the place of trial in the federal system and
which arbitrarily prevent actual convenience from
determining the place of trial. The limitations upon the
section should only be those which recognize legitimate
countervailing considerations to the free reign of actual
convenience, namely limitations regarding the power of
the federal courts to adjudicate, and limitation
recognizing the historic privilege of the defendant,
should he choose to exercise it, to object to the place of
trial unless it is affirmatively designated by the venue
statute.
It may be urged in answer to this analysis that if transfer
is available as a matter of "convenience" and "justice" in
every case in which the defendant consents to going
forward in the transferee court, § 1404 (a) will entail
burdensome preliminary litigation and may, if
improperly administered, prove vexatious to plaintiffs.
Thus, even arbitrary limitations, such as the Court
imposes, may be said to be warranted. In effect this
argument against transfer in situations like the present
implies distrust in the ability and character of district
judges to hold the balance even, that is, to dispose
quickly of frivolous contentions and to prevent transfer
from proving unduly prejudicial to plaintiffs while
according it its proper scope to deal with cases of real
inconvenience. "Such apprehension implies a lack of
discipline and of disinterestedness on the part of the
lower courts, hardly a worthy or wise basis for
fashioning rules of procedure. It reflects an attitude
against which we were warned by Mr. Justice Holmes,
speaking for the whole Court, likewise in regard to a
question of procedure: `Universal distrust creates
universal incompetence.' [363 U.S. 369] Graham v.
United States, 231 U.S. 474, 480." Kerotest Mfg. Co. v.
C-O-Two Co., 342 U.S. 180, 185. As in that case, doubts
here should be resolved in favor of the competence of
the District Courts wisely to administer § 1404 (a).
Whatever salutary effect that section is to have must in
any event depend upon due appreciation by district
judges of the relevant considerations involved in
ordering a transfer. Nothing is to be gained by parceling
out the areas of their discretion mechanically, making
distinctions which have no relevance to the manner in
which venue provisions are ordinarily administered in
the federal courts. I would therefore permit
considerations of "convenience" and "justice" to be
operative whenever the defendant consents to going
forward in the transferee court on the same terms on
which he was sued in the original forum. Against a rare
abuse, there will always be available the corrective
supervisory power of the Courts of Appeals, and
ultimately of this Court.