To relieve against what was apparently thought to be
the harshness of dismissal, under the doctrine of forum
[363 U.S. 336] non conveniens, of an action brought in
an inconvenient one of two or more legally available
forums, Gulf Oil Corp. v. Gilbert, 330 U.S. 501, and
concerned by the reach of Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.
Kepner, 314 U.S. 44,1 Congress, in 1948, enacted 28 U.
S. C. § 1404 (a), which provides:
"§ 1404. Change of venue.
"(a) For the convenience of parties and witnesses, in the interest of
justice, a district court may transfer any civil action to any other
district or division where it might have been brought."
The instant cases present the question whether a
District Court, in which a civil action has been properly
brought, is empowered by § 1404 (a) to transfer the
action, on the motion of the defendant, to a district in
which the plaintiff did not have a right to bring it.
No. 25, Blaski.—Respondents, Blaski and others,
residents of Illinois, brought this patent infringement
action in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Texas against one Howell and a
Texas corporation controlled by him, alleging that the
defendants are residents of, and maintain their only
place of business in, the City of Dallas, in the Northern
District of Texas, where they are infringing
respondents' patents. After being served with process
and filing their answer, the defendants moved, under §
1404 (a), to transfer the action to the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.2
Respondents objected to the [363 U.S. 337] transfer on
the ground that, inasmuch as the defendants did not
reside, maintain a place of business, or infringe the
patents in, and could not have been served with process
in, the Illinois district, the courts of that district lacked
venue over the action3 and ability to command
jurisdiction over the defendants;4 that therefore that
district was not a forum in which the respondents had a
right to bring the action, and, hence, the court was
without power to transfer it to that district. Without
mentioning that objection or the question it raised, the
District Court found that "the motion should be granted
for the convenience of the parties and witnesses in the
interest of justice," and ordered the case transferred to
the Illinois district. Thereupon, respondents moved in
the Fifth Circuit for leave to file a petition for a writ of
mandamus directing the vacation of that order. That
court, holding that "[t]he purposes for which § 1404 (a)
was enacted would be unduly circumscribed if a transfer
could not be made `in the interest of justice' to a district
where the defendants not only waive venue but to
which they seek the transfer," denied the motion. Ex
parte Blaski, 245 F.2d 737, 738.
Upon receipt of a certified copy of the pleadings and
record, the Illinois District Court assigned the action to
Judge Hoffman's calendar. Respondents promptly
moved for an order remanding the action on the ground
that the Texas District Court did not have power to
make the transfer order and, hence, the Illinois District
Court was not thereby vested with jurisdiction of the
action. [363 U.S. 338] After expressing his view that the
"weight of reason and logic" favored "retransfer of this
case to Texas," Judge Hoffman, with misgivings, denied
the motion. Respondents then filed in the Seventh
Circuit a petition for a writ of mandamus directing
Judge Hoffman to reverse his order. After hearing and
rehearing, the Seventh Circuit, holding that "[w]hen
Congress provided [in § 1404 (a)] for transfer [of a civil
action] to a district `where it might have been brought,'
it is hardly open to doubt but that it referred to a district
where the plaintiff . . . had a right to bring the case," and
that respondents did not have a right to bring this action
in the Illinois district, granted the writ, one judge
dissenting. 260 F.2d 317.
No. 26, Behimer.—Diversity of citizenship then existing,
respondents, Behimer and Roberts, residents of Illinois
and New York, respectively, brought this stockholders'
derivative action, as minority stockholders of Utah Oil
Refining Corporation, a Utah corporation, on behalf of
themselves and others similarly situated, in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
against Standard Oil Company and Standard Oil
Foundation, Inc., Indiana corporations but licensed to
do and doing business in the Northern District of
Illinois, for damages claimed to have been sustained
through the alleged illegal acquisition by defendants of
the assets of the Utah corporation at an inadequate
price.
After being served with process and filing their answer,
the defendants moved, under § 1404 (a), to transfer the
action to the United States District Court for the
District of Utah.5 Respondents objected to the transfer
on the [363 U.S. 339] ground that, inasmuch as the
defendants were not incorporated in or licensed to do or
doing business in, and could not be served with process
in. the district of Utah, the courts of that district lacked
venue over the action6 and ability to command
jurisdiction over the defendants;7 that therefore that
district was not a forum in which the respondents had a
right to bring the action, and, hence, the court was
without power to transfer it to that district. Without
mentioning the question raised by that objection, the
court found that the proposed transfer would be "for the
convenience of the parties and witnesses and in the
interest of justice," and ordered the case transferred to
the district of Utah.
Respondents then filed in the Seventh Circuit a petition
for a writ of mandamus directing the District Court to
reverse its order. After hearing, the Seventh Circuit,
following its decision in Blaski v. Hoffman, supra,
granted the writ. 261 F.2d 467.
To settle the conflict that has arisen among the circuits
respecting the proper interpretation and application of §
1404 (a),8 we granted certiorari. 359 U.S. 904; 361 U.S.
809.
[363 U.S. 340] Without sacrifice or slight of any tenable
position, the parties have in this Court commendably
narrowed their contentions to the scope of the only
relevant inquiry. The points of contention may be
sharpened by first observing what is not in contest.
Discretion of the district judges concerned is not
involved. Propriety of the remedy of mandamus is not
assailed. No claim is made here that the order of the
Fifth Circuit denying the motion of respondents in the
Blaski case for leave to file a petition for writ of
mandamus, 245 F.2d 737, precluded Judge Hoffman or
the Seventh Circuit from remanding that case.9
Petitioners concede that these actions were [363 U.S.
341] properly brought in the respective transferor
forums; that statutory venue did not exist over either of
these actions in the respective transferee districts,10 and
that the respective defendants were not within the reach
of the process of the respective transferee courts.11 They
concede, too, [363 U.S. 342] that § 1404 (a), being "not
unlimited," "may be utilized only to direct an action to
any other district or division `where it might have been
brought,' " and that, like the superseded doctrine of
forum non conveniens, Gulf Oil Corp. v. Gilbert, 330
U.S. 501, 507, the statute requires "an alternative forum
in which plaintiff might proceed."
Petitioners' "thesis" and sole claim is that § 1404 (a),
being remedial, Ex parte Collett, 337 U.S. 55, 71, should
be broadly construed, and, when so construed, the
phrase "where it might have been brought" should be
held to relate not only to the time of the bringing of the
action, but also to the time of the transfer; and that "if at
such time the transferee forum has the power to
adjudicate the issues of the action, it is a forum in which
the action might then have been brought."12 (Emphasis
added.) They argue that in the interim between the
bringing of the action and the filing of a motion to
transfer it, the defendants may move their residence to,
or, if corporations, may begin the transaction of
business in, some other district, and, if such is done, the
phrase "where it might have been brought" should be
construed to empower the District Court to transfer the
action, on motion of the defendants, to such other
district; and that, similarly, if, as here, the defendants
move to transfer the action to some other district and
consent to submit to the jurisdiction of such other
district, the latter district should be held one "in which
the action might then have been brought." (Emphasis
added.)
We do not agree. We do not think the § 1404 (a) phrase
"where it might have been brought" can be interpreted
to mean, as petitioners' theory would require, [363 U.S.
343] "where it may now be rebrought, with defendants'
consent." This Court has said, in a different context, that
§ 1404 (a) is "unambiguous, direct [and] clear," Ex parte
Collett, 337 U. S., at 58, and that "the unequivocal words
of § 1404 (a) and the legislative history . . . [establish]
that Congress indeed meant what it said." United States
v. National City Lines, Inc., 337 U.S. 78, 84. Like the
Seventh Circuit, 260 F. 2d, at 322, we think the
dissenting opinion of Judges Hastie and McLaughlin in
Paramount Pictures, Inc., v. Rodney, 186 F.2d 111 (C. A.
3d Cir.), correctly answered this contention:
"But we do not see how the conduct of a defendant after suit has
been instituted can add to the forums where `it might have been
brought.' In the normal meaning of words this language of Section
1404 (a) directs the attention of the judge who is considering a
transfer to the situation which existed when suit was instituted."
It is not to be doubted that the transferee courts, like
every District Court, had jurisdiction to entertain
actions of the character involved, but it is obvious that
they did not acquire jurisdiction over these particular
actions when they were brought in the transferor
courts. The transferee courts could have acquired
jurisdiction over these actions only if properly brought
in those courts, or if validly transferred thereto under §
1404 (a). Of course, venue, like jurisdiction over the
person, may be waived. A defendant, properly served
with process by a court having subject matter
jurisdiction, waives venue by failing seasonably to assert
it, or even simply by making default. Commercial Ins.
Co. v. Stone Co., 278 U.S. 177, 179-180; Neirbo Co. v.
Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., Ltd., 308 U.S. 165. But
the power of a District Court under § 1404 (a) to
transfer an action to another district is made to depend
not upon the wish or waiver of the defendant but,
rather, upon whether the transferee district was one
[363 U.S. 344] in which the action "might have been
brought" by the plaintiff.
The thesis urged by petitioners would not only do
violence to the plain words of § 1404 (a), but would also
inject gross discrimination. That thesis, if adopted,
would empower a District Court, upon a finding of
convenience, to transfer an action to any district desired
by the defendants and in which they were willing to
waive their statutory defenses as to venue and
jurisdiction over their persons, regardless of the fact that
such transferee district was not one in which the action
"might have been brought" by the plaintiff. Conversely,
that thesis would not permit the court, upon motion of
the plaintiffs and a like showing of convenience, to
transfer the action to the same district, without the
consent and waiver of venue and personal jurisdiction
defenses by the defendants. Nothing in § 1404 (a), or in
its legislative history, suggests such a unilateral objective
and we should not, under the guise of interpretation,
ascribe to Congress any such discriminatory purpose.
We agree with the Seventh Circuit that:
"If when a suit is commenced, plaintiff has a right to sue in that
district, independently of the wishes of defendant, it is a district
`where [the action] might have been brought.' If he does not have
that right, independently of the wishes of defendant, it is not a
district `where it might have been brought,' and it is immaterial
that the defendant subsequently [makes himself subject, by consent,
waiver of venue and personal jurisdiction defenses or otherwise, to
the jurisdiction of some other forum]." 260 F. 2d, at 321 and 261 F.
2d, at 469.
Inasmuch as the respondents (plaintiffs) did not have a
right to bring these actions in the respective transferee
districts, it follows that the judgments of the Court of
Appeals were correct and must be
Affirmed.