This private antitrust action for treble damages and
other relief under §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act1 and §
4 of the Clayton Act2 was brought by the petitioner
against a number of defendants in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
After hearings on a motion to dismiss the action on
grounds of improper venue and lack of personal
jurisdiction over the defendants, the Pennsylvania
District Court agreed that venue was improperly laid as
to two of the corporate defendants3 because they were
neither inhabitants of, "found" nor transacting business
in Pennsylvania, these being the alternative
prerequisites for venue under § 12 of the Clayton Act.4
That court refused to dismiss the action as to these
defendants, however, choosing instead to use its
authority under 28 U. S. C. § 1406 (a) to transfer it to
the Southern District of New York where, because the
defendants could be found and transacted business,
venue was proper and personal jurisdiction could be
obtained over them by service of process under § 12.
These two corporate defendants then appeared in the
New York District Court and moved to have the case
dismissed by that court on the ground that the
Pennsylvania District Court had not had personal
jurisdiction over them and, lacking such personal
jurisdiction, it had not had power under § 1406 (a) to
transfer the [369 U.S. 465] action.5 The New York
District Court granted this motion on the ground
asserted,6 and the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, with Judge Hincks dissenting, affirmed on the
same ground.7 Because this decision presented a conflict
with the uniform course of decisions previously made
on this same question by other Courts of Appeal,8 we
granted certiorari.9
Section 1406 (a), under which the Pennsylvania District
Court transferred this case, provides:
"The district court of a district in which is filed a case laying venue
in the wrong division or district shall dismiss, or if it be in the
interest of justice, transfer such case to any district or division in
which it could have been brought."
Nothing in that language indicates that the operation of
the section was intended to be limited to actions in
which the transferring court has personal jurisdiction
over the defendants. And we cannot agree that such a
restrictive interpretation can be supported by its
legislative history [369 U.S. 466] —either that relied
upon by the Court of Appeals10 or any other that has
been brought to our attention. The problem which gave
rise to the enactment of the section was that of avoiding
the injustice which had often resulted to plaintiffs from
dismissal of their actions merely because they had made
an erroneous guess with regard to the existence of some
elusive fact of the kind upon which venue provisions
often turn. Indeed, this case is itself a typical example of
the problem sought to be avoided, for dismissal here
would have resulted in plaintiff's losing a substantial
part of its cause of action under the statute of limitations
merely because it made a mistake in thinking that the
respondent corporations could be "found" or that they
"transact . . . business" in the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania.11 The language and history of § 1406 (a),
both as originally enacted12 and as amended in 1949,13
show a congressional purpose to provide as effective a
remedy as possible to avoid precisely this sort of
injustice.
The language of § 1406 (a) is amply broad enough to
authorize the transfer of cases, however wrong the
plaintiff may have been in filing his case as to venue,
whether the court in which it was filed had personal
jurisdiction over the defendants or not. The section is
thus in accord with the general purpose which has
prompted many of the procedural changes of the past
few years—that of removing whatever obstacles may
impede an expeditious and orderly adjudication of cases
and controversies [369 U.S. 467] on their merits. When
a lawsuit is filed, that filing shows a desire on the part of
the plaintiff to begin his case and thereby toll whatever
statutes of limitation would otherwise apply. The filing
itself shows the proper diligence on the part of the
plaintiff which such statutes of limitation were intended
to insure. If by reason of the uncertainties of proper
venue a mistake is made, Congress, by the enactment of
§ 1406 (a), recognized that "the interest of justice" may
require that the complaint not be dismissed but rather
that it be transferred in order that the plaintiff not be
penalized by what the late Judge Parker aptly
characterized as "time-consuming and justice-defeating
technicalities."14 It would at least partially frustrate this
enlightened congressional objective to import
ambiguities into § 1406 (a) which do not exist in the
language Congress used to achieve the procedural
reform it desired.
The Court of Appeals erred in upholding the District
Court's order dismissing this action as to these two
corporate defendants. The judgment of the Court of
Appeals is accordingly
Reversed.