It is unquestionably true that up to now Erie and the
cases following it have not succeeded in articulating a
workable doctrine governing choice of law in diversity
actions. I respect the Court's effort to clarify the
situation in today's opinion. However, in doing so I
think it has misconceived the constitutional premises of
Erie and has failed to deal adequately with those past
decisions upon which the courts below relied.
Erie was something more than an opinion which
worried about "forum-shopping and avoidance of
inequitable administration of the laws," ante, p. 468,
although to be sure these were important elements of
the decision. I have always regarded that decision as one
of the modern cornerstones of our federalism,
expressing policies that profoundly touch the allocation
of judicial power between the state and federal systems.
Erie recognized that there should not be two conflicting
systems of law controlling the primary activity of
citizens, for such alternative governing authority must
necessarily give rise to a debilitating uncertainty in the
planning of everyday affairs.1 And it recognized that the
scheme of our Constitution envisions an allocation of
law-making functions between state and federal
legislative processes which is undercut if the federal
judiciary can make substantive law affecting [380 U.S.
475] state affairs beyond the bounds of congressional
legislative powers in this regard. Thus, in diversity cases
Erie commands that it be the state law governing
primary private activity which prevails.
The shorthand formulations which have appeared in
some past decisions are prone to carry untoward results
that frequently arise from oversimplification. The Court
is quite right in stating that the "outcomedeterminative"
test of Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326
U.S. 99, if taken literally, proves too much, for any rule,
no matter how clearly "procedural," can affect the
outcome of litigation if it is not obeyed. In turning from
the "outcome" test of York back to the unadorned
forum-shopping rationale of Erie, however, the Court
falls prey to like over-simplification, for a simple forumshopping
rule also proves too much; litigants often
choose a federal forum merely to obtain what they
consider the advantages of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure or to try their cases before a supposedly more
favorable judge. To my mind the proper line of
approach in determining whether to apply a state or a
federal rule, whether "substantive" or "procedural," is to
stay close to basic principles by inquiring if the choice of
rule would substantially affect those primary decisions
respecting human conduct which our constitutional
system leaves to state regulation.2 If so, Erie and the
Constitution require that the state rule prevail, even in
the face of a conflicting federal rule.
The Court weakens, if indeed it does not submerge, this
basic principle by finding, in effect, a grant of
substantive legislative power in the constitutional
provision for a federal [380 U.S. 476] court system
(compare Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1), and through it,
setting up the Federal Rules as a body of law inviolate.
"[T]he constitutional provision for a federal court system . . . carries
with it congressional power . . . to regulate matters which, though
falling within the uncertain area between substance and procedure,
are rationally capable of classification as either." Ante, p. 472.
(Emphasis supplied.)
So long as a reasonable man could characterize any duly
adopted federal rule as "procedural," the Court, unless I
misapprehend what is said, would have it apply no
matter how seriously it frustrated a State's substantive
regulation of the primary conduct and affairs of its
citizens. Since the members of the Advisory Committee,
the Judicial Conference, and this Court who formulated
the Federal Rules are presumably reasonable men, it
follows that the integrity of the Federal Rules is
absolute. Whereas the unadulterated outcome and
forum-shopping tests may err too far toward honoring
state rules, I submit that the Court's "arguably
procedural, ergo constitutional" test moves too fast and
far in the other direction.
The courts below relied upon this Court's decisions in
Ragan v. Merchants Transfer Co., 337 U.S. 530, and
Cohen v. Beneficial Loan Corp., 337 U.S. 541. Those
cases deserve more attention than this Court has given
them, particularly Ragan which, if still good law, would
in my opinion call for affirmance of the result reached
by the Court of Appeals. Further, a discussion of these
two cases will serve to illuminate the "diversity" thesis I
am advocating.
In Ragan a Kansas statute of limitations provided that an
action was deemed commenced when service was made
on the defendant. Despite Federal Rule 3 which
provides that an action commences with the filing of the
complaint, [380 U.S. 477] the Court held that for
purposes of the Kansas statute of limitations a diversity
tort action commenced only when service was made
upon the defendant. The effect of this holding was that
although the plaintiff had filed his federal complaint
within the state period of limitations, his action was
barred because the federal marshal did not serve a
summons on the defendant until after the limitations
period had run. I think that the decision was wrong. At
most, application of the Federal Rule would have meant
that potential Kansas tort defendants would have to
defer for a few days the satisfaction of knowing that they
had not been sued within the limitations period. The
choice of the Federal Rule would have had no effect on
the primary stages of private activity from which torts
arise, and only the most minimal effect on behavior
following the commission of the tort. In such
circumstances the interest of the federal system in
proceeding under its own rules should have prevailed.
Cohen v. Beneficial Loan Corp. held that a federal
diversity court must apply a state statute requiring a
small stockholder in a stockholder derivative suit to post
a bond securing payment of defense costs as a condition
to prosecuting an action. Such a statute is not "outcome
determinative"; the plaintiff can win with or without it.
The Court now rationalizes the case on the ground that
the statute might affect the plaintiff's choice of forum
(ante, p. 469, n. 10), but as has been pointed out, a
simple forum-shopping test proves too much. The
proper view of Cohen is, in my opinion, that the statute
was meant to inhibit small stockholders from instituting
"strike suits," and thus it was designed and could be
expected to have a substantial impact on private primary
activity. Anyone who was at the trial bar during the
period when Cohen arose can appreciate the strong state
policy reflected in the statute. I think it wholly
legitimate to view Federal Rule 23 as not purporting to
deal [380 U.S. 478] with the problem. But even had the
Federal Rules purported to do so, and in so doing
provided a substantially less effective deterrent to strike
suits, I think the state rule should still have prevailed.
That is where I believe the Court's view differs from
mine; for the Court attributes such overriding force to
the Federal Rules that it is hard to think of a case where
a conflicting state rule would be allowed to operate,
even though the state rule reflected policy
considerations which, under Erie, would lie within the
realm of state legislative authority.
It remains to apply what has been said to the present
case. The Massachusetts rule provides that an executor
need not answer suits unless in-hand service was made
upon him or notice of the action was filed in the proper
registry of probate within one year of his giving bond.
The evident intent of this statute is to permit an
executor to distribute the estate which he is
administering without fear that further liabilities may be
outstanding for which he could be held personally liable.
If the Federal District Court in Massachusetts applies
Rule 4 (d) (1) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
instead of the Massachusetts service rule, what effect
would that have on the speed and assurance with which
estates are distributed? As I see it, the effect would not
be substantial. It would mean simply that an executor
would have to check at his own house or the federal
courthouse as well as the registry of probate before he
could distribute the estate with impunity. As this does
not seem enough to give rise to any real impingement
on the vitality of the state policy which the
Massachusetts rule is intended to serve, I concur in the
judgment of the Court.