The question to be decided is whether, in a civil action
where the jurisdiction of the United States district court
is based upon diversity of citizenship between the
parties, service of process shall be made in the manner
prescribed by state law or that set forth in Rule 4 (d) (1)
of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
On February 6, 1963, petitioner, a citizen of Ohio, filed
her complaint in the District Court for the District of
Massachusetts, claiming damages in excess of $10,000
for personal injuries resulting from an automobile
accident in South Carolina, allegedly caused by the
negligence of one Louise Plumer Osgood, a
Massachusetts citizen deceased at the time of the filing
of the complaint. Respondent, Mrs. Osgood's executor
and also a Massachusetts citizen, was named as
defendant. On February 8, service was made by leaving
copies of the summons and the complaint with
respondent's wife at his residence, concededly in
compliance with Rule 4 (d) (1), which provides:
"The summons and complaint shall be served together. The
plaintiff shall furnish the person making service with such copies as
are necessary. Service shall be made as follows:
"(1) Upon an individual other than an infant or an incompetent
person, by delivering a copy of the summons and of the complaint
to him personally or by leaving copies thereof at his dwelling house
or usual place of abode with some person of suitable age and
discretion then residing therein . . . ."
Respondent filed his answer on February 26, alleging,
inter alia, that the action could not be maintained
because it had been brought "contrary to and in
violation of the [380 U.S. 462] provisions of
Massachusetts General Laws (Ter. Ed.) Chapter 197,
Section 9." That section provides:
"Except as provided in this chapter, an executor or administrator
shall not be held to answer to an action by a creditor of the deceased
which is not commenced within one year from the time of his
giving bond for the performance of his trust, or to such an action
which is commenced within said year unless before the expiration
thereof the writ in such action has been served by delivery in hand
upon such executor or administrator or service thereof accepted by
him or a notice stating the name of the estate, the name and address
of the creditor, the amount of the claim and the court in which the
action has been brought has been filed in the proper registry of
probate. . . ." Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., c. 197, § 9 (1958).
On October 17, 1963, the District Court granted
respondent's motion for summary judgment, citing
Ragan v. Merchants Transfer Co., 337 U.S. 530, and
Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326 U.S. 99, in support of
its conclusion that the adequacy of the service was to be
measured by § 9, with which, the court held, petitioner
had not complied. On appeal, petitioner admitted
noncompliance with § 9, but argued that Rule 4 (d) (1)
defines the method by which service of process is to be
effected in diversity actions. The Court of Appeals for
the First Circuit, finding that "[r]elatively recent
amendments [to § 9] evince a clear legislative purpose
to require personal notification within the year,"1
concluded that the conflict of state [380 U.S. 463] and
federal rules was over "a substantive rather than a
procedural matter," and unanimously affirmed. 331 F.2d
157. Because of the threat to the goal of uniformity of
federal procedure posed by the decision below,2 we
granted certiorari, 379 U.S. 813.
We conclude that the adoption of Rule 4 (d) (1),
designed to control service of process in diversity
actions,3 [380 U.S. 464] neither exceeded the
congressional mandate embodied in the Rules Enabling
Act nor transgressed constitutional bounds, and that the
Rule is therefore the standard against which the District
Court should have measured the adequacy of the service.
Accordingly, we reverse the decision of the Court of
Appeals.
The Rules Enabling Act, 28 U. S. C. § 2072 (1958 ed.),
provides, in pertinent part:
"The Supreme Court shall have the power to prescribe, by general
rules, the forms of process, writs, pleadings, and motions, and the
practice and procedure of the district courts of the United States in
civil actions.
"Such rules shall not abridge, enlarge or modify any substantive
right and shall preserve the right of trial by jury . . . ."
Under the cases construing the scope of the Enabling
Act, Rule 4 (d) (1) clearly passes muster. Prescribing the
manner in which a defendant is to be notified that a suit
has been instituted against him, it relates to the "practice
and procedure of the district courts." Cf. Insurance Co.
v. Bangs, 103 U.S. 435, 439.
"The test must be whether a rule really regulates procedure, —the
judicial process for enforcing rights and duties recognized by
substantive law and for justly administering remedy and redress for
disregard or infraction of them." Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., 312 U.S.
1, 14.4
In Mississippi Pub. Corp. v. Murphree, 326 U.S. 438,
this Court upheld Rule 4 (f), which permits service of a
summons anywhere within the State (and not merely
the district) in which a district court sits:
"We think that Rule 4 (f) is in harmony with the Enabling Act . . . .
Undoubtedly most alterations [380 U.S. 465] of the rules of practice
and procedure may and often do affect the rights of litigants.
Congress' prohibition of any alteration of substantive rights of
litigants was obviously not addressed to such incidental effects as
necessarily attend the adoption of the prescribed new rules of
procedure upon the rights of litigants who, agreeably to rules of
practice and procedure, have been brought before a court
authorized to determine their rights. Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., 312
U.S. 1, 11-14. The fact that the application of Rule 4 (f) will operate
to subject petitioner's rights to adjudication by the district court for
northern Mississippi will undoubtedly affect those rights. But it
does not operate to abridge, enlarge or modify the rules of decision
by which that court will adjudicate its rights." Id., at 445-446.
Thus were there no conflicting state procedure, Rule 4
(d) (1) would clearly control. National Rental v.
Szukhent, 375 U.S. 311, 316. However, respondent,
focusing on the contrary Massachusetts rule, calls to the
Court's attention another line of cases, a line
which—like the Federal Rules—had its birth in 1938.
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64, overruling Swift
v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, held that federal courts sitting in
diversity cases, when deciding questions of "substantive"
law, are bound by state court decisions as well as state
statutes. The broad command of Erie was therefore
identical to that of the Enabling Act: federal courts are
to apply state substantive law and federal procedural
law. However, as subsequent cases sharpened the
distinction between substance and procedure, the line of
cases following Erie diverged markedly from the line
construing the Enabling Act. Guaranty Trust Co. v.
York, 326 U.S. 99, made it clear that Erie-type problems
were not to be solved by [380 U.S. 466] reference to any
traditional or common-sense substance-procedure
distinction:
"And so the question is not whether a statute of limitations is
deemed a matter of `procedure' in some sense. The question is . . .
does it significantly affect the result of a litigation for a federal court
to disregard a law of a State that would be controlling in an action
upon the same claim by the same parties in a State court?" 326 U. S.,
at 109.5
Respondent, by placing primary reliance on York and
Ragan, suggests that the Erie doctrine acts as a check on
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, that despite the
clear command of Rule 4 (d) (1), Erie and its progeny
demand the application of the Massachusetts rule.
Reduced to essentials, the argument is: (1) Erie, as
refined in York, demands that federal courts apply state
law whenever application of federal law in its stead will
alter the outcome of the case. (2) In this case, a
determination that the Massachusetts service
requirements obtain will result in immediate victory for
respondent. If, on the other hand, it should be held that
Rule 4 (d) (1) is applicable, the litigation will continue,
with possible victory for petitioner. (3) Therefore, Erie
demands application of the Massachusetts rule. The
syllogism possesses an appealing simplicity, but is for
several reasons invalid.
In the first place, it is doubtful that, even if there were
no Federal Rule making it clear that in-hand service is
not required in diversity actions, the Erie rule would
have obligated the District Court to follow the
Massachusetts procedure. "Outcome-determination"
analysis was never [380 U.S. 467] intended to serve as a
talisman. Byrd v. Blue Ridge Cooperative, 356 U.S. 525,
537. Indeed, the message of York itself is that choices
between state and federal law are to be made not by
application of any automatic, "litmus paper" criterion,
but rather by reference to the policies underlying the
Erie rule. Guaranty Trust Co. v. York,supra, at 108-
112.6
The Erie rule is rooted in part in a realization that it
would be unfair for the character or result of a litigation
materially to differ because the suit had been brought in
a federal court.
"Diversity of citizenship jurisdiction was conferred in order to
prevent apprehended discrimination in state courts against those
not citizens of the State. Swift v. Tyson introduced grave
discrimination by non-citizens against citizens. It made rights
enjoyed under the unwritten `general law' vary according to
whether enforcement was sought in the state or in the federal
court; and the privilege of selecting the court in which the right
should be determined was conferred upon the non-citizen. Thus,
the doctrine rendered impossible equal protection of the law." Erie
R. Co. v. Tompkins, supra, at 74-75.7
The decision was also in part a reaction to the practice
of "forum-shopping" which had grown up in response
to the rule of Swift v. Tyson. 304 U. S., at 73-74.8 That
the York test was an attempt to effectuate these policies
is demonstrated by the fact that the opinion framed the
inquiry in terms of "substantial" variations between state
[380 U.S. 468] and federal litigation. 326 U. S., at 109.
Not only are nonsubstantial, or trivial, variations not
likely to raise the sort of equal protection problems
which troubled the Court in Erie; they are also unlikely
to influence the choice of a forum. The "outcomedetermination"
test therefore cannot be read without
reference to the twin aims of the Erie rule:
discouragement of forum-shopping and avoidance of
inequitable administration of the laws.9
The difference between the conclusion that the
Massachusetts rule is applicable, and the conclusion that
it is not, is of course at this point "outcomedeterminative"
in the sense that if we hold the state rule
to apply, respondent prevails, whereas if we hold that
Rule 4 (d) (1) governs, the litigation will continue. But
in this sense every procedural variation is "outcomedeterminative."
For example, having brought suit in a
federal court, a plaintiff cannot then insist on the right
to [380 U.S. 469] file subsequent pleadings in accord
with the time limits applicable in the state courts, even
though enforcement of the federal timetable will, if he
continues to insist that he must meet only the state time
limit, result in determination of the controversy against
him. So it is here. Though choice of the federal or state
rule will at this point have a marked effect upon the
outcome of the litigation, the difference between the
two rules would be of scant, if any, relevance to the
choice of a forum. Petitioner, in choosing her forum,
was not presented with a situation where application of
the state rule would wholly bar recovery;10 rather,
adherence to the state rule would have resulted only in
altering the way in which process was served.11
Moreover, it is difficult to argue that permitting service
of defendant's wife to take the place of in-hand service
of defendant himself alters the mode of enforcement of
state-created rights in a fashion sufficiently "substantial"
to raise the sort of equal protection problems to which
the Erie opinion alluded.
There is, however, a more fundamental flaw in
respondent's syllogism: the incorrect assumption that
the rule of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins constitutes the
appropriate test [380 U.S. 470] of the validity and
therefore the applicability of a Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure. The Erie rule has never been invoked to void
a Federal Rule. It is true that there have been cases
where this Court has held applicable a state rule in the
face of an argument that the situation was governed by
one of the Federal Rules. But the holding of each such
case was not that Erie commanded displacement of a
Federal Rule by an inconsistent state rule, but rather
that the scope of the Federal Rule was not as broad as
the losing party urged, and therefore, there being no
Federal Rule which covered the point in dispute, Erie
commanded the enforcement of state law.
"Respondent contends, in the first place, that the charge was correct
because of the fact that Rule 8 (c) of the Rules of Civil Procedure
makes contributory negligence an affirmative defense. We do not
agree. Rule 8 (c) covers only the manner of pleading. The question
of the burden of establishing contributory negligence is a question
of local law which federal courts in diversity of citizenship cases
(Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64) must apply." Palmer v.
Hoffman, 318 U.S. 109, 117.12
(Here, of course, the clash is unavoidable; Rule 4 (d) (1)
says—implicitly, but with unmistakable clarity—that inhand
service is not required in federal courts.) At the
same time, in cases adjudicating the validity of Federal
Rules, we have not applied the York rule or other
refinements of Erie, but have to this day continued to
decide questions concerning the scope of the Enabling
Act and the constitutionality of specific Federal Rules in
light of [380 U.S. 471] the distinction set forth in
Sibbach. E. g., Schlagenhauf v. Holder, 379 U.S. 104.
Nor has the development of two separate lines of cases
been inadvertent. The line between "substance" and
"procedure" shifts as the legal context changes. "Each
implies different variables depending upon the
particular problem for which it is used." Guaranty Trust
Co. v. York, supra, at 108; Cook, The Logical and Legal
Bases of the Conflict of Laws, pp. 154-183 (1942). It is
true that both the Enabling Act and the Erie rule say,
roughly, that federal courts are to apply state
"substantive" law and federal "procedural" law, but from
that it need not follow that the tests are identical. For
they were designed to control very different sorts of
decisions. When a situation is covered by one of the
Federal Rules, the question facing the court is a far cry
from the typical, relatively unguided Erie choice: the
court has been instructed to apply the Federal Rule, and
can refuse to do so only if the Advisory Committee, this
Court, and Congress erred in their prima facie judgment
that the Rule in question transgresses neither the terms
of the Enabling Act nor constitutional restrictions.13
We are reminded by the Erie opinion14 that neither
Congress nor the federal courts can, under the guise of
formulating rules of decision for federal courts, fashion
rules which are not supported by a grant of federal
authority contained in Article I or some other section of
the Constitution; in such areas state law must govern
[380 U.S. 472] because there can be no other law. But
the opinion in Erie, which involved no Federal Rule and
dealt with a question which was "substantive" in every
traditional sense (whether the railroad owed a duty of
care to Tompkins as a trespasser or a licensee), surely
neither said nor implied that measures like Rule 4 (d) (1)
are unconstitutional. For the constitutional provision
for a federal court system (augmented by the Necessary
and Proper Clause) carries with it congressional power
to make rules governing the practice and pleading in
those courts, which in turn includes a power to regulate
matters which, though falling within the uncertain area
between substance and procedure, are rationally capable
of classification as either. Cf. M`Culloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 421. Neither York nor the cases following
it ever suggested that the rule there laid down for coping
with situations where no Federal Rule applies is
coextensive with the limitation on Congress to which
Erie had adverted. Although this Court has never before
been confronted with a case where the applicable
Federal Rule is in direct collision with the law of the
relevant State,15 courts of appeals faced with such
clashes have rightly discerned the implications of our
decisions.
"One of the shaping purposes of the Federal Rules is to bring about
uniformity in the federal courts by getting away from local rules.
This is especially true of matters which relate to the administration
of legal proceedings, an area in which federal courts [380 U.S. 473]
have traditionally exerted strong inherent power, completely aside
from the powers Congress expressly conferred in the Rules. The
purpose of the Erie doctrine, even as extended in York and Ragan,
was never to bottle up federal courts with `outcome-determinative'
and `integral-relations' stoppers— when there are `affirmative
countervailing [federal] considerations' and when there is a
Congressional mandate (the Rules) supported by constitutional
authority." Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Co. v. Wright, 322 F.2d
759, 764 (C. A. 5th Cir. 1963).16
Erie and its offspring cast no doubt on the longrecognized
power of Congress to prescribe
housekeeping rules for federal courts even though some
of those rules will inevitably differ from comparable
state rules. Cf. Herron v. Southern Pacific Co., 283 U.S.
91. "When, because the plaintiff happens to be a nonresident,
such a right is enforceable in a federal as well as
in a State court, the forms and mode of enforcing the
right may at times, naturally enough, vary because the
two judicial systems are not identic." Guaranty Trust
Co. v. York, supra, at 108; Cohen v. Beneficial Loan
Corp., 337 U.S. 541, 555. Thus, though a court, in
measuring a Federal Rule against the standards
contained in the Enabling Act and the Constitution,
need not wholly blind itself to the degree to which the
Rule makes the character and result of the federal
litigation stray from the course it would follow in state
courts, Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., supra, at 13-14, it
cannot be forgotten that the Erie rule, and the guidelines
suggested in York, were created to serve another
purpose altogether. To hold that a Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure must cease to function whenever it alters the
mode of enforcing state-created rights would be to
disembowel [380 U.S. 474] either the Constitution's
grant of power over federal procedure or Congress'
attempt to exercise that power in the Enabling Act.17
Rule 4 (d) (1) is valid and controls the instant case.
Reversed.