Respondents instituted a garnishment action against
petitioner as defendant and Miller Harris Instrument
Co., her employer, as garnishee. The complaint alleged
[395 U.S. 338]
 a claim of $420 on a promissory note. The
garnishee filed its answer stating it had wages of $63.18
under its control earned by petitioner and unpaid, and
that it would pay one-half to petitioner as a subsistence
allowance
1 
 and hold the other half subject to the order
of the court.
Petitioner moved that the garnishment proceedings be
dismissed for failure to satisfy the due process
requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
Wisconsin Supreme Court sustained the lower state
court in approving the procedure. 37 Wis.2d 163, 154
N.W.2d 259. The case is here on a petition for a writ of
certiorari. 393 U.S. 1078.
The Wisconsin statute gives a plaintiff 10 days in which
to serve the summons and complaint on the defendant
after service on the garnishee.
2 
 In this case petitioner
was served the same day as the garnishee. She
nonetheless claims that the Wisconsin garnishment
procedure violates that due process required by the
Fourteenth Amendment, in that notice and an
opportunity to be heard are not given before the in rem
seizure of the wages. What happens in Wisconsin is that
the clerk of the court issues the summons at the request
of the creditor's lawyer; and it is the latter who by
serving the garnishee sets in motion the machinery
whereby the 
[395 U.S. 339]
 wages are frozen.
3 
 They
may, it is true, be unfrozen if the trial of the main suit is
ever had and the wage earner wins on the merits. But in
the interim the wage earner is deprived of his
enjoyment of earned wages without any opportunity to
be heard and to tender any defense he may have,
whether it be fraud or otherwise.
Such summary procedure may well meet the
requirements of due process in extraordinary situations.
Cf. Fahey v. Mallonee, 332 U.S. 245, 253-254; Ewing v.
Mytinger & Casselberry, Inc., 339 U.S. 594, 598-600;
Ownbey v. Morgan, 256 U.S. 94, 110-112; Coffin Bros.
v. Bennett, 277 U.S. 29, 31. But in the present case no
situation requiring special protection to a state or
creditor interest is presented by the facts; nor is the
Wisconsin statute narrowly drawn to meet any such
unusual condition. Petitioner was a resident of this
Wisconsin community and in personam jurisdiction
was readily obtainable.
The question is not whether the Wisconsin law is a wise
law or unwise law. Our concern is not what philosophy
Wisconsin should or should not embrace. See Green v.
Frazier, 253 U.S. 233. We do not sit as a super-
legislative body. In this case the sole question is whether
there has been a taking of property without that
procedural due process that is required by the
Fourteenth Amendment. We have dealt over and over
again with the question of what constitutes "the right to
be heard" (Schroeder v. New York, 371 U.S. 208, 212)
within the meaning of procedural due process. See
Mullane v. Central Hanover Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306,
314. In the latter case we said that the right to be heard
"has little reality or worth unless one is informed that
the matter is pending and can choose for himself
whether 
[395 U.S. 340]
 to appear or default, acquiesce or
contest." 339 U. S., at 314. In the context of this case the
question is whether the interim freezing of the wages
without a chance to be heard violates procedural due
process.
A procedural rule that may satisfy due process for
attachments in general, see McKay v. McInnes, 279 U.S.
820, does not necessarily satisfy procedural due process
in every case. The fact that a procedure would pass
muster under a feudal regime does not mean it gives
necessary protection to all property in its modern forms.
We deal here with wages—a specialized type of property
presenting distinct problems in our economic system.
We turn then to the nature of that property and
problems of procedural due process.
A prejudgment garnishment of the Wisconsin type is a
taking which may impose tremendous hardship on wage
earners with families to support. Until a recent Act of
Congress,
4 
§
 304 of which forbids discharge of
employees on the ground that their wages have been
garnished, garnishment often meant the loss of a job.
Over and beyond that was the great drain on family
income. As stated by Congressman Reuss:
5
"The idea of wage garnishment in advance of judgment, of trustee
process, of wage attachment, or whatever it is called is a most
inhuman doctrine. It compels the wage earner, trying to keep his
family together, to be driven below the poverty level."
Recent investigations of the problem have disclosed the
grave injustices made possible by prejudgment
garnishment whereby the sole opportunity to be heard
comes after the taking. Congressman Sullivan,
Chairman of 
[395 U.S. 341]
 the House Subcommittee on
Consumer Affairs who held extensive hearings on this
and related problems stated:
"What we know from our study of this problem is that in a vast
number of cases the debt is a fraudulent one, saddled on a poor
ignorant person who is trapped in an easy credit nightmare, in
which he is charged double for something he could not pay for even
if the proper price was called for, and then hounded into giving up
his pound of flesh, and being fired besides." 114 Cong. Rec. 1832.
The leverage of the creditor on the wage earner is
enormous. The creditor tenders not only the original
debt but the "collection fees" incurred by his attorneys in
the garnishment proceedings:
"The debtor whose wages are tied up by a writ of garnishment, and
who is usually in need of money, is in no position to resist demands
for collection fees. If the debt is small, the debtor will be under
considerable pressure to pay the debt and collection charges in
order to get his wages back. If the debt is large, he will often sign a
new contract of `payment schedule' which incorporates these
additional charges."
6
Apart from those collateral consequences, it appears that
in Wisconsin the statutory exemption granted the wage
earner
7 
 is "generally insufficient to support the debtor
for any one week."
8
The result is that a prejudgment garnishment of the
Wisconsin type may as a practical matter drive a wage-
earning 
[395 U.S. 342]
 family to the wall.
9 
 Where the
taking of one's property is so obvious, it needs no
extended argument to conclude that absent notice and a
prior hearing (cf. Coe v. Armour Fertilizer Works, 237
U.S. 413, 423) this prejudgment garnishment procedure
violates the fundamental principles of due process.
Reversed.