In the last half century the United States, along with
many, perhaps most, other nations of the world, has
moved far toward becoming a welfare state, that is, a
nation that for one reason or another taxes its most 
[397
U.S. 272]
 affluent people to help support, feed, clothe,
and shelter its less fortunate citizens. The result is that
today more than nine million men, women, and
children in the United States receive some kind of state
or federally financed public assistance in the form of
allowances or gratuities, generally paid them
periodically, usually by the week, month, or quarter.
1
Since these gratuities are paid on the basis of need, the
list of recipients is not static, and some people go off the
lists and others are added from time to time. These ever-
changing lists put a constant administrative burden on
government and it certainly could not have reasonably
anticipated that this burden would include the additional
procedural expense imposed by the Court today.
The dilemma of the ever-increasing poor in the midst of
constantly growing affluence presses upon us and must
inevitably be met within the framework of our
democratic constitutional government, if our system is
to survive as such. It was largely to escape just such
pressing economic problems and attendant government
repression that people from Europe, Asia, and other
areas settled this country and formed our Nation. Many
of those settlers had personally suffered from
persecutions of various kinds and wanted to get away
from governments that had unrestrained powers to
make life miserable for their citizens. It was for this
reason, or so I believe, that on reaching these new lands
the early settlers undertook to curb their governments
by confining their powers 
[397 U.S. 273]
 within written
boundaries, which eventually became written
constitutions.
2 
 They wrote their basic charters as nearly
as men's collective wisdom could do so as to proclaim to
their people and their officials an emphatic command
that: "Thus far and no farther shall you go; and where
we neither delegate powers to you, nor prohibit your
exercise of them, we the people are left free."
3
Representatives of the people of the Thirteen Original
Colonies spent long, hot months in the summer of 1787
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, creating a government of
limited powers. They divided it into three departments
—Legislative, Judicial, and Executive. The Judicial
Department was to have no part whatever in making
any laws. In fact proposals looking to vesting some
power in the Judiciary to take part in the legislative
process and veto laws were offered, considered, and
rejected by the Constitutional Convention.
4 
 In my 
[397
U.S. 274]
 judgment there is not one word, phrase, or
sentence from the beginning to the end of the
Constitution from which it can be inferred that judges
were granted any such legislative power. True, Marbury
v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137 (1803), held, and properly, I
think, that courts must be the final interpreters of the
Constitution, and I recognize that the holding can
provide an opportunity to slide imperceptibly into
constitutional amendment and law making. But when
federal judges use this judicial power for legislative
purposes, I think they wander out of their field of vested
powers and transgress into the area constitutionally
assigned to the Congress and the people. That is
precisely what I believe the Court is doing in this case.
Hence my dissent.
The more than a million names on the relief rolls in
New York,
5 
 and the more than nine million names on
the rolls of all the 50 States were not put there at
random. The names are there because state welfare
officials believed that those people were eligible for
assistance. Probably in the officials' haste to make out
the lists many names were put there erroneously in
order to alleviate immediate suffering, and undoubtedly
some people are drawing relief who are not entitled
under the law to do so. Doubtless some draw relief
checks from time to time who know they are not
eligible, either because they are not actually in need or
for some other reason. Many of those who thus draw
undeserved gratuities are without sufficient property to
enable the government to collect back from them any
money they wrongfully receive. But the Court today
holds that it would violate the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to stop paying those people
weekly or monthly allowances unless the government
first affords them a full "evidentiary hearing" even 
[397
U.S. 275]
 though welfare officials are persuaded that the
recipients are not rightfully entitled to receive a penny
under the law. In other words, although some recipients
might be on the lists for payment wholly because of
deliberate fraud on their part, the Court holds that the
government is helpless and must continue, until after an
evidentiary hearing, to pay money that it does not owe,
never has owed, and never could owe. I do not believe
there is any provision in our Constitution that should
thus paralyze the government's efforts to protect itself
against making payments to people who are not entitled
to them.
Particularly do I not think that the Fourteenth
Amendment should be given such an unnecessarily
broad construction. That Amendment came into being
primarily to protect Negroes from discrimination, and
while some of its language can and does protect others,
all know that the chief purpose behind it was to protect
ex-slaves. Cf. Adamson v. California, 332 U.S. 46, 71-72,
and n. 5 (1947) (dissenting opinion). The Court,
however, relies upon the Fourteenth Amendment and
in effect says that failure of the government to pay a
promised charitable installment to an individual
deprives that individual of his own property, in
violation of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. It somewhat strains credulity to say that
the government's promise of charity to an individual is
property belonging to that individual when the
government denies that the individual is honestly
entitled to receive such a payment.
I would have little, if any, objection to the majority's
decision in this case if it were written as the report of
the House Committee on Education and Labor, but as
an opinion ostensibly resting on the language of the
Constitution I find it woefully deficient. Once the
verbiage is pared away it is obvious that this Court today
adopts the views of the District Court "that to cut off a
welfare recipient in the face of . . . `brutal need' without
a prior 
[397 U.S. 276]
 hearing of some sort is
unconscionable," and therefore, says the Court,
unconstitutional. The majority reaches this result by a
process of weighing "the recipient's interest in avoiding"
the termination of welfare benefits against "the
governmental interest in summary adjudication." Ante,
at 263. Today's balancing act requires a "pre-termination
evidentiary hearing," yet there is nothing that indicates
what tomorrow's balance will be. Although the majority
attempts to bolster its decision with limited quotations
from prior cases, it is obvious that today's result does
not depend on the language of the Constitution itself or
the principles of other decisions, but solely on the
collective judgment of the majority as to what would be
a fair and humane procedure in this case.
This decision is thus only another variant of the view
often expressed by some members of this Court that the
Due Process Clause forbids any conduct that a majority
of the Court believes "unfair," "indecent," or "shocking
to their consciences." See, e. g., Rochin v. California, 342
U.S. 165, 172 (1952). Neither these words nor any like
them appear anywhere in the Due Process Clause. If
they did, they would leave the majority of Justices free to
hold any conduct unconstitutional that they should
conclude on their own to be unfair or shocking to
them.
6 
 Had the drafters of the Due Process Clause
meant to leave judges such ambulatory power to declare
[397 U.S. 277]
 laws unconstitutional, the chief value of a
written constitution, as the Founders saw it, would have
been lost. In fact, if that view of due process is correct,
the Due Process Clause could easily swallow up all other
parts of the Constitution. And truly the Constitution
would always be "what the judges say it is" at a given
moment, not what the Founders wrote into the
document.
7 
 A written constitution, designed to
guarantee protection against governmental abuses,
including those of judges, must have written standards
that mean something definite and have an explicit
content. I regret very much to be compelled to say that
the Court today makes a drastic and dangerous
departure from a Constitution written to control and
limit the government and the judges and moves toward
a constitution designed to be no more and no less than
what the judges of a particular social and economic
philosophy declare on the one hand to be fair or on the
other hand to be shocking and unconscionable.
The procedure required today as a matter of
constitutional law finds no precedent in our legal
system. Reduced to its simplest terms, the problem in
this case is similar to that frequently encountered when
two parties have an ongoing legal relationship that
requires one party to make periodic payments to the
other. Often the situation arises where the party
"owing" the money stops paying it and justifies his
conduct by arguing that the recipient is not legally
entitled to payment. The recipient can, of course,
disagree and go to court to compel payment. But I know
of no situation in our legal system in which the person
alleged to owe money to 
[397 U.S. 278]
 another is
required by law to continue making payments to a
judgment-proof claimant without the benefit of any
security or bond to insure that these payments can be
recovered if he wins his legal argument. Yet today's
decision in no way obligates the welfare recipient to pay
back any benefits wrongfully received during the pre-
termination evidentiary hearings or post any bond, and
in all "fairness" it could not do so. These recipients are
by definition too poor to post a bond or to repay the
benefits that, as the majority assumes, must be spent as
received to insure survival.
The Court apparently feels that this decision will benefit
the poor and needy. In my judgment the eventual result
will be just the opposite. While today's decision requires
only an administrative, evidentiary hearing, the
inevitable logic of the approach taken will lead to
constitutionally imposed, time-consuming delays of a
full adversary process of administrative and judicial
review. In the next case the welfare recipients are bound
to argue that cutting off benefits before judicial review
of the agency's decision is also a denial of due process.
Since, by hypothesis, termination of aid at that point
may still "deprive an eligible recipient of the very means
by which to live while he waits," ante, at 264, I would be
surprised if the weighing process did not compel the
conclusion that termination without full judicial review
would be unconscionable. After all, at each step, as the
majority seems to feel, the issue is only one of weighing
the government's pocketbook against the actual survival
of the recipient, and surely that balance must always tip
in favor of the individual. Similarly today's decision
requires only the opportunity to have the benefit of
counsel at the administrative hearing, but it is difficult
to believe that the same reasoning process would not
require the appointment of counsel, for otherwise the
right to counsel is a meaningless one since these 
[397
U.S. 279]
 people are too poor to hire their own
advocates. Cf. Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U.S. 335, 344
(1963). Thus the end result of today's decision may well
be that the government, once it decides to give welfare
benefits, cannot reverse that decision until the recipient
has had the benefits of full administrative and judicial
review, including, of course, the opportunity to present
his case to this Court. Since this process will usually
entail a delay of several years, the inevitable result of
such a constitutionally imposed burden will be that the
government will not put a claimant on the rolls initially
until it has made an exhaustive investigation to
determine his eligibility. While this Court will perhaps
have insured that no needy person will be taken off the
rolls without a full "due process" proceeding, it will also
have insured that many will never get on the rolls, or at
least that they will remain destitute during the lengthy
proceedings followed to determine initial eligibility.
For the foregoing reasons I dissent from the Court's
holding. The operation of a welfare state is a new
experiment for our Nation. For this reason, among
others, I feel that new experiments in carrying out a
welfare program should not be frozen into our
constitutional structure. They should be left, as are other
legislative determinations, to the Congress and the
legislatures that the people elect to make our laws.