Petitioner, Sandra Adickes, a white school teacher from
New York, brought this suit in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York against
respondent S. H. Kress & Co. ("Kress") to recover
damages under 42 U. S. C. § 19831 for an alleged
violation of her constitutional rights under the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
suit arises out of Kress' refusal to serve lunch to Miss
Adickes at its restaurant facilities in its Hattiesburg,
Mississippi, store on August 14, 1964, and Miss Adickes'
subsequent arrest upon her departure from the store by
the Hattiesburg police on a charge of vagrancy. At the
time of both the refusal to serve and the arrest, Miss
Adickes was with six young people, all Negroes, who
were her students in a Mississippi "Freedom School"
where she was [398 U.S. 147] teaching that summer.
Unlike Miss Adickes, the students were offered service,
and were not arrested.
Petitioner's complaint had two counts,2 each bottomed
on § 1983, and each alleging that Kress had deprived her
of the right under the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment not to be discriminated against
on the basis of race. The first count charged that Miss
Adickes had been refused service by Kress because she
was a "Caucasian in the company of Negroes." Petitioner
sought, inter alia, to prove that the refusal to serve her
was pursuant to a "custom of the community to
segregate the races in public eating places." However, in
a pretrial decision, 252 F.Supp. 140 (1966), the District
Court ruled that to recover under this count, Miss
Adickes would have to prove that at the time she was
refused service, there was a specific "custom . . . of
refusing service to whites in the company of Negroes"
and that this custom was "enforced by the State" under
Mississippi's criminal trespass statute.3 Because
petitioner was unable to prove at the trial that there
were other instances in Hattiesburg of a white person
having been refused service while in the company of
Negroes, [398 U.S. 148] the District Court directed a
verdict in favor of respondent. A divided panel of the
Court of Appeals affirmed on this ground, also holding
that § 1983 "requires that the discriminatory custom or
usage be proved to exist in the locale where the
discrimination took place, and in the State generally,"
and that petitioner's "proof on both points was
deficient," 409 F.2d 121, 124 (1968).
The second count of her complaint, alleging that both
the refusal of service and her subsequent arrest were the
product of a conspiracy between Kress and the
Hattiesburg police, was dismissed before trial on a
motion for summary judgment. The District Court
ruled that petitioner had "failed to allege any facts from
which a conspiracy might be inferred." 252 F. Supp., at
144. This determination was unanimously affirmed by
the Court of Appeals, 409 F. 2d, at 126-127.
Miss Adickes, in seeking review here, claims that the
District Court erred both in directing a verdict on the
substantive count, and in granting summary judgment
on the conspiracy count. Last Term we granted
certiorari, 394 U.S. 1011 (1969), and we now reverse
and remand for further proceedings on each of the two
counts.
As explained in Part I, because the respondent failed to
show the absence of any disputed material fact, we think
the District Court erred in granting summary judgment.
With respect to the substantive count, for reasons
explained in Part II, we think petitioner will have made
out a claim under § 1983 for violation of her equal
protection rights if she proves that she was refused
service by Kress because of a state-enforced custom
requiring racial segregation in Hattiesburg restaurants.
We think the courts below erred (1) in assuming that
the only proof relevant to showing that a custom was
state-enforced related to the Mississippi criminal
trespass statute; (2) in defining the relevant [398 U.S.
149] state-enforced custom as requiring proof of a
practice both in Hattiesburg and throughout Mississippi,
of refusing to serve white persons in the company of
Negroes rather than simply proof of state-enforced
segregation of the races in Hattiesburg restaurants.
I
Briefly stated, the conspiracy count of petitioner's
complaint made the following allegations: While
serving as a volunteer teacher at a "Freedom School" for
Negro children in Hattiesburg, Mississippi, petitioner
went with six of her students to the Hattiesburg Public
Library at about noon on August 14, 1964. The librarian
refused to allow the Negro students to use the library,
and asked them to leave. Because they did not leave, the
librarian called the Hattiesburg chief of police who told
petitioner and her students that the library was closed,
and ordered them to leave. From the library, petitioner
and the students proceeded to respondent's store where
they wished to eat lunch. According to the complaint,
after the group sat down to eat, a policeman came into
the store "and observed [Miss Adickes] in the company
of the Negro students." A waitress then came to the
booth where petitioner was sitting, took the orders of
the Negro students, but refused to serve petitioner
because she was a white person "in the company of
Negroes." The complaint goes on to allege that after this
refusal of service, petitioner and her students left the
Kress store. When the group reached the sidewalk
outside the store, "the Officer of the Law who had
previously entered [the] store" arrested petitioner on a
groundless charge of vagrancy and took her into
custody.
On the basis of these underlying facts petitioner alleged
that Kress and the Hattiesburg police had conspired (1)
"to deprive [her] of her right to enjoy equal treatment
and service in a place of public accommodation"; [398
U.S. 150] and (2) to cause her arrest "on the false charge
of vagrancy."
A. CONSPIRACIES BETWEEN PUBLIC OFFICIALS
AND PRIVATE PERSONS—GOVERNING
PRINCIPLES
The terms of § 1983 make plain two elements that are
necessary for recovery. First, the plaintiff must prove
that the defendant has deprived him of a right secured
by the "Constitution and laws" of the United States.
Second, the plaintiff must show that the defendant
deprived him of this constitutional right "under color of
any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of
any State or Territory." This second element requires
that the plaintiff show that the defendant acted "under
color of law."4
As noted earlier we read both counts of petitioner's
complaint to allege discrimination based on race in
violation of petitioner's equal protection rights.5 Few
principles [398 U.S. 151] of law are more firmly stitched
into our constitutional fabric than the proposition that a
State must not discriminate against a person because of
his race [398 U.S. 152] or the race of his companions, or
in any way act to compel or encourage racial
segregation.6 Although this is a lawsuit against a private
party, not the State or one of its officials, our cases make
clear that petitioner will have made out a violation of
her Fourteenth Amendment rights and will be entitled
to relief under § 1983 if she can prove that a Kress
employee, in the course of employment, and a
Hattiesburg policeman somehow reached an
understanding to deny Miss Adickes service in the Kress
store, or to cause her subsequent arrest because she was
a white person in the company of Negroes.
The involvement of a state official in such a conspiracy
plainly provides the state action essential to show a
direct violation of petitioner's Fourteenth Amendment
equal protection rights, whether or not the actions of
the police were officially authorized, or lawful; Monroe
v. Pape, 365 U.S. 167 (1961); see United States v. Classic,
313 U.S. 299, 326 (1941); Screws v. United States, 325
U.S. 91, 107-111 (1945); Williams v. United States, 341
U.S. 97, 99-100 (1951). Moreover, a private party
involved in such a conspiracy, even though not an
official of the State, can be liable under § 1983. "Private
persons, jointly engaged with state officials in the
prohibited action, are acting `under color' of law for
purposes of the statute. To act `under color' of law does
not require that the accused be an officer of the State. It
is enough that he is a willful participant in joint activity
with the State or its agents," United States v. Price, 383
U.S. 787, 794 (1966).7
[398 U.S. 153] B. SUMMARY JUDGMENT
We now proceed to consider whether the District Court
erred in granting summary judgment on the conspiracy
count. In granting respondent's motion, the District
Court simply stated that there was "no evidence in the
complaint or in the affidavits and other papers from
which a `reasonably-minded person' might draw an
inference of conspiracy," 252 F. Supp., at 144, aff'd, 409
F. 2d, at 126-127. Our own scrutiny of the factual
allegations of petitioner's complaint, as well as the
material found in the affidavits and depositions
presented by Kress to the District Court, however,
convinces us that summary judgment was improper
here, for we think respondent failed to carry its burden
of showing the absence of any genuine issue of fact.
Before explaining why this is so, it is useful to state the
factual arguments, made by the parties concerning
summary judgment, and the reasoning of the courts
below.
In moving for summary judgment, Kress argued that
"uncontested facts" established that no conspiracy
existed between any Kress employee and the police. To
support this assertion, Kress pointed first to the
statements in the deposition of the store manager (Mr.
Powell) that (a) he had not communicated with the
police,8 and that (b) he had, by a prearranged tacit [398
U.S. 154] signal,9 ordered the food counter supervisor to
see that Miss Adickes was refused service only because
he was fearful of a riot in the store by customers angered
at seeing a "mixed group" of whites and blacks eating
together.10 Kress also relied on affidavits from the
Hattiesburg [398 U.S. 155] chief of police,11 and the two
arresting officers,12 to the effect that store manager
Powell had not requested that petitioner be arrested.
Finally, Kress pointed to the statements in petitioner's
own deposition that she had no knowledge of any
communication between any Kress employee and any
member of the Hattiesburg police, and was relying on
circumstantial evidence to support her [398 U.S. 156]
contention that there was an arrangement between
Kress and the police.
Petitioner, in opposing summary judgment, pointed out
that respondent had failed in its moving papers to
dispute the allegation in petitioner's complaint, a
statement at her deposition,13 and an unsworn
statement by a Kress employee,14 all to the effect that
there was a policeman in the store at the time of the
refusal to serve her, and that this was the policeman
who subsequently [398 U.S. 157] arrested her. Petitioner
argued that although she had no knowledge of an
agreement between Kress and the police, the sequence
of events created a substantial enough possibility of a
conspiracy to allow her to proceed to trial, especially
given the fact that the non-circumstantial evidence of
the conspiracy could only come from adverse witnesses.
Further, she submitted an affidavit specifically disputing
the manager's assertion that the situation in the store at
the time of the refusal was "explosive," thus creating an
issue of fact as to what his motives might have been in
ordering the refusal of service.
We think that on the basis of this record, it was error to
grant summary judgment. As the moving party,
respondent had the burden of showing the absence of a
genuine issue as to any material fact, and for these
purposes the material it lodged must be viewed in the
light most favorable to the opposing party.15
Respondent here did not carry its burden because of its
failure to foreclose the possibility that there was a
policeman in the Kress store while petitioner was
awaiting service, and that this policeman reached an
understanding with some Kress employee that
petitioner not be served.
It is true that Mr. Powell, the store manager, claimed in
his deposition that he had not seen or communicated
with a policeman prior to his tacit signal to Miss
Baggett, the supervisor of the food counter. But
respondent did not submit any affidavits from Miss
Baggett,16 or from [398 U.S. 158] Miss Freeman,17 the
waitress who actually refused petitioner service, either
of whom might well have seen and communicated with
a policeman in the store. Further, we find it particularly
noteworthy that the two officers involved in the arrest
each failed in his affidavit to foreclose the possibility (1)
that he was in the store while petitioner was there; and
(2) that, upon seeing petitioner with Negroes, he
communicated his disapproval to a Kress employee,
thereby influencing the decision not to serve petitioner.
Given these unexplained gaps in the materials submitted
by respondent, we conclude that respondent failed to
fulfill its initial burden of demonstrating what is a
critical element in this aspect of the case—that there was
no policeman in the store. If a policeman were present,
we think it would be open to a jury, in light of the
sequence that followed, to infer from the circumstances
that the policeman and a Kress employee had a "meeting
of the minds" and thus reached an understanding that
petitioner should be refused service. Because "[o]n
summary judgment the inferences to be drawn from the
underlying facts contained in [the moving party's]
materials must be viewed in the light [398 U.S. 159] most
favorable to the party opposing the motion," United
States v. Diebold, Inc., 369 U.S. 654, 655 (1962), we
think respondent's failure to show there was no
policeman in the store requires reversal.
Pointing to Rule 56 (e), as amended in 1963,18
respondent argues that it was incumbent on petitioner
to come forward with an affidavit properly asserting the
presence of the policeman in the store, if she were to
rely on that fact to avoid summary judgment.
Respondent notes in this regard that none of the
materials upon which petitioner relied met the
requirements of Rule 56 (e).19
This argument does not withstand scrutiny, however,
for both the commentary on and background of the
1963 amendment conclusively show that it was not
intended to modify the burden of the moving party
under Rule 56 (c) to show initially the absence of a
genuine issue concerning any material fact.20 The
Advisory Committee [398 U.S. 160] note on the
amendment states that the changes were not designed to
"affect the ordinary standards applicable to the summary
judgment." And, in a comment directed specifically to a
contention like respondent's the Committee stated that
"[w]here the evidentiary matter in support of the
motion does not establish the absence of a genuine issue,
summary judgment must be denied even if no opposing
evidentiary matter is presented."21 Because respondent
did not meet its initial burden of establishing the
absence of a policeman in the store, petitioner here was
not required to come forward with suitable opposing
affidavits.22
If respondent had met its initial burden by, for example,
submitting affidavits from the policemen denying their
presence in the store at the time in question, Rule 56 (e)
would then have required petitioner to have done more
than simply rely on the contrary allegation in her
complaint. To have avoided conceding this fact for
purposes of summary judgment, petitioner would have
had to come forward with either (1) the affidavit of
someone who saw the policeman in the store or (2) an
affidavit under Rule 56 (f) explaining why at that time it
was impractical to do so. Even though not essential here
to defeat [398 U.S. 161] respondent's motion, the
submission of such an affidavit would have been the
preferable course for petitioner's counsel to have
followed. As one commentator has said:
"It has always been perilous for the opposing party neither to
proffer any countering evidentiary materials nor file a 56 (f)
affidavit. And the peril rightly continues [after the amendment to
Rule 56 (e)]. Yet the party moving for summary judgment has the
burden to show that he is entitled to judgment under established
principles; and if he does not discharge that burden then he is not
entitled to judgment. No defense to an insufficient showing is
required." 6 J. Moore, Federal Practice ¶ 56.22 [2], pp. 2824-2825
(2d ed. 1966).
II
There remains to be discussed the substantive count of
petitioner's complaint, and the showing necessary for
petitioner to prove that respondent refused her service
"under color of any . . . custom, or usage, of [the] State"
in violation of her rights under the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.23
[398 U.S. 162] A. CUSTOM OR USAGE
We are first confronted with the issue of whether a
"custom" for purposes of § 1983 must have the force of
law, or whether, as argued in dissent, no state
involvement is required. Although this Court has never
explicitly decided this question, we do not interpret the
statute against an amorphous backdrop.
What is now 42 U. S. C. § 1983 came into existence as §
1 of the Ku Klux Klan Act of April 20, 1871, 17 Stat. 13.
The Chairman of the House Select Committee which
drafted this legislation described24 § 1 as modeled after §
2 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866—a criminal provision
that also contained language that forbade certain acts by
any person "under color of any law, statute, ordinance,
regulation, or custom," 14 Stat. 27. In the Civil Rights
Cases, 109 U.S. 3, 16 (1883), the Court said of this 1866
statute: "This law is clearly corrective in its [398 U.S.
163] character, intended to counteract and furnish
redress against State laws and proceedings, and customs
having the force of law, which sanction the wrongful
acts specified." (Emphasis added.) Moreover, after an
exhaustive examination of the legislative history of the
1866 Act, both the majority and dissenting opinions25 in
Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., 392 U.S. 409 (1968),
concluded that § 2 of the 1866 Civil Rights Act was
intended to be limited to "deprivations perpetrated
`under color of law.' "26 (Emphasis added.)
Quite apart from this Court's construction of the
identical "under color of" provision of § 2 of the 1866
Act, the legislative history of § 1 of the 1871 Act, the
lineal ancestor of § 1983, also indicates that the
provision in question here was intended to encompass
only conduct supported by state action. That such a
limitation was intended for § 1 can be seen from an
examination of the statements and actions of both the
supporters and opponents of the Ku Klux Klan Act.
[398 U.S. 164] In first reporting the Committee's
recommendations to the House, Representative
Shellabarger, the Chairman of the House Select
Committee which drafted the Ku Klux Klan Act, said
that § 1 was "in its terms carefully confined to giving a
civil action for such wrongs against citizenship as are
done under color of State laws which abridge these
rights."27 (Emphasis added.) Senator Edmunds,
Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary,
and also a supporter of the bill, said of this provision:
"The first section is one that I believe nobody objects to,
as defining the rights secured by the Constitution of the
United States when they are assailed by any State law or
under color of any State law, and it is merely carrying
out the principles of the civil rights bill, which have
since become a part of the Constitution."28 (Emphasis
added.) Thus, in each House, the leader of those
favoring the bill expressly stated his understanding that
§ 1 was limited to deprivations of rights done under
color of law.
That Congress intended to limit the scope of § 1 to
actions taken under color of law is further seen by
contrasting its legislative history with that of other
sections of the same Act. On the one hand, there was
comparatively little debate over § 1 of the Ku Klux Klan
Act, and it was eventually enacted in form identical to
that in which it was introduced in the House.29 Its
history thus stands in sharp contrast to that of other
sections [398 U.S. 165] of the Act.30 For example, § 2 of
the 1871 Act,31 a provision aimed at private conspiracies
with no "under color of law" requirement, created a
great storm of controversy, in part because it was
thought to encompass private conduct. Senator
Thurman, for example, one of the leaders of the
opposition to the Act, although objecting to § 1 on other
grounds, admitted its constitutionality32 and
characterized it as "refer[ring] to a deprivation under
color of law, either statute law or `custom or usage'
which has become common law."33 (Emphasis added.)
This same Senator insisted vociferously on the absence
of congressional power under § 5 of the Fourteenth [398
U.S. 166] Amendment to penalize a conspiracy of private
individuals to violate state law.34 The comparative lack
of controversy concerning § 1, in the context of the
heated debate over the other provisions, suggests that
the opponents of the Act, with minor exceptions, like its
proponents understood § 1 to be limited to conduct
under color of law.
In addition to the legislative history, there exists an
unbroken line of decisions, extending back many years,
in which this Court has declared that action "under
color of law" is a predicate for a cause of action under §
1983,35 or its criminal counterpart, 18 U. S. C. § 242.36
Moreover, with the possible exception of an exceedingly
opaque district court opinion,37 every lower court
opinion of which we are aware that has considered the
issue, has concluded that a "custom or usage" for
purposes of § 1983 requires state involvement and is not
simply a practice that reflects longstanding social habits,
generally [398 U.S. 167] observed by the people in a
locality.38 Finally, the language of the statute itself points
in the same direction for it expressly requires that the
"custom or usage" be that "of any State, " not simply of
the people living in a state. In sum, against this
background, we think it clear that a "custom, or usage,
of [a] State" for purposes of § 1983 must have the force
of law by virtue of the persistent practices of state
officials.
Congress included customs and usages within its
definition of law in § 1983 because of the persistent and
widespread discriminatory practices of state officials in
some areas of the post-bellum South. As Representative
Garfield said: "[E]ven where the laws are just and equal
on their face, yet, by a systematic maladministration of
them, or a neglect or refusal to enforce their provisions,
a portion of the people are denied equal protection
under them."39 Although not authorized by written law,
such [398 U.S. 168] practices of state officials could well
be so permanent and well settled as to constitute a
"custom or usage" with the force of law.
This interpretation of custom recognizes that settled
practices of state officials may, by imposing sanctions or
withholding benefits, transform private predilections
into compulsory rules of behavior no less than
legislative pronouncements. If authority be needed for
this truism, it can be found in Nashville, C. & St. L. R.
Co. v. Browning, 310 U.S. 362 (1940), where the Court
held that although a statutory provision suggested a
different note, the "law" in Tennessee as established by
longstanding practice of state officials was that railroads
and public utilities were taxed at full cash value. What
Justice Frankfurter wrote there seems equally apt here:
"It would be a narrow conception of jurisprudence to confine the
notion of `laws' to what is found written on the statute books, and
to disregard the gloss which life has written upon it. Settled state
practice . . . can establish what is state law. The Equal Protection
Clause did not write an empty formalism into the Constitution.
Deeply embedded traditional ways of carrying out state policy, such
as those of which petitioner complains, are often tougher and truer
law than the dead words of the written text." Id., at 369.
And in circumstances more closely analogous to the case
at hand, the statements of the chief of police and mayor
of New Orleans, as interpreted by the Court [398 U.S.
169] in Lombard v. Louisiana, 373 U.S. 267 (1963), could
well have been taken by restaurant proprietors as
articulating a custom having the force of law. Cf. Garner
v. Louisiana, 368 U.S. 157, 176-185 (DOUGLAS, J.,
concurring) (1961); Wright v. Georgia, 373 U.S. 284
(1963); Baldwin v. Morgan, 287 F.2d 750, 754 (C. A. 5th
Cir. 1961).
B. STATE ACTION—14TH AMENDMENT
VIOLATION
For petitioner to recover under the substantive count of
her complaint, she must show a deprivation of a right
guaranteed to her by the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Since the "action inhibited by
the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment is only
such action as may fairly be said to be that of the States,"
Shelley v. Kraemer, 334 U.S. 1, 13 (1948), we must
decide, for purposes of this case, the following "state
action" issue: Is there sufficient state action to prove a
violation of petitioner's Fourteenth Amendment rights
if she shows that Kress refused her service because of a
state-enforced custom compelling segregation of the
races in Hattiesburg restaurants?
In analyzing this problem, it is useful to state two polar
propositions, each of which is easily identified and
resolved. On the one hand, the Fourteenth Amendment
plainly prohibits a State itself from discriminating
because of race. On the other hand, § 1 of the
Fourteenth Amendment does not forbid a private party,
not acting against a backdrop of state compulsion or
involvement, to discriminate on the basis of race in his
personal affairs as an expression of his own personal
predilections. As was said in Shelley v. Kraemer, supra,
§ 1 of "[t]hat Amendment erects no shield against
merely private conduct, however discriminatory or
wrongful." 334 U. S., at 13.
[398 U.S. 170] At what point between these two
extremes a State's involvement in the refusal becomes
sufficient to make the private refusal to serve a violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment, is far from clear under
our case law. If a State had a law requiring a private
person to refuse service because of race, it is clear
beyond dispute that the law would violate the
Fourteenth Amendment and could be declared invalid
and enjoined from enforcement. Nor can a State enforce
such a law requiring discrimination through either
convictions of proprietors who refuse to discriminate,
or trespass prosecutions of patrons who, after being
denied service pursuant to such a law, refuse to honor a
request to leave the premises.40
The question most relevant for this case, however, is a
slightly different one. It is whether the decision of an
owner of a restaurant to discriminate on the basis of
race under the compulsion of state law offends the
Fourteenth Amendment. Although this Court has not
explicitly decided the Fourteenth Amendment state
action issue implicit in this question, underlying the
Court's decisions in the sit-in cases is the notion that a
State is responsible for the discriminatory act of a
private party when the State, by its law, has compelled
the act. As the Court said in Peterson v. City of
Greenville, 373 U.S. 244, 248 (1963): "When the State
has commanded a particular result, it has saved to itself
the power to determine that result and thereby `to a
significant extent' has `become involved' in it."
Moreover, there is much support in lower court
opinions for the conclusion that discriminatory acts by
private parties done under the compulsion of state law
offend the Fourteenth [398 U.S. 171] Amendment. In
Baldwin v. Morgan, supra, the Fifth Circuit held that
"[t]he very act of posting and maintaining separate
[waiting room] facilities when done by the [railroad]
Terminal as commanded by these state orders is action
by the state." The Court then went on to say: "As we
have pointed out above the State may not use race or
color as the basis for distinction. It may not do so by
direct action or through the medium of others who are
under State compulsion to do so." Id., at 755-756
(emphasis added). We think the same principle governs
here.
For state action purposes it makes no difference of
course whether the racially discriminatory act by the
private party is compelled by a statutory provision or by
a custom having the force of law—in either case it is the
State that has commanded the result by its law. Without
deciding whether less substantial involvement of a State
might satisfy the state action requirement of the
Fourteenth Amendment, we conclude that petitioner
would show an abridgment of her equal protection
right, if she proves that Kress refused her service
because of a state-enforced custom of segregating the
races in public restaurants.
C. THREE ADDITIONAL POINTS
For purposes of remand, we consider it appropriate to
make three additional points.
First, the District Court's pretrial opinion seems to
suggest that the exclusive means available to petitioner
for demonstrating that state enforcement of the custom
relevant here would be by showing that the State used
its criminal trespass statute for this purpose. We
disagree with the District Court's implicit assumption
that a custom can have the force of law only if it is
enforced [398 U.S. 172] by a state statute.41 Any such
limitation is too restrictive, for a state official might act
to give a custom the force of law in a variety of ways, at
least two examples of which are suggested by the record
here. For one thing, petitioner may be able to show that
the police subjected her to false arrest for vagrancy for
the purpose of harassing and punishing her for
attempting to eat with black people.42 Alternatively, it
might be shown on remand that the Hattiesburg police
would intentionally tolerate violence or threats of
violence directed toward those who violated the practice
of segregating the races at restaurants.43
[398 U.S. 173] Second, we think the District Court was
wrong in ruling that the only proof relevant to showing
a custom in this case was that demonstrating a specific
practice of not serving white persons who were in the
company of black persons in public restaurants. As
Judge Waterman pointed out in his dissent below,
petitioner could not possibly prove a "long and
unvarying" habit of serving only the black persons in a
"mixed" party of whites and blacks for the simple reason
that "it was only after the Civil Rights Act of 1964
became law that Afro-Americans had an opportunity to
be served in Mississippi `white' restaurants" at all, 409 F.
2d, at 128. Like Judge Waterman we think the District
Court viewed the matter too narrowly, for under
petitioner's complaint the relevant inquiry is whether at
the time of the episode in question there was a
longstanding and still prevailing state-enforced custom
of segregating the races in public eating places. Such a
custom, of course, would perforce encompass the
particular kind of refusal to serve challenged in this case.
Third, both the District Court and the majority opinion
in the Court of Appeals suggested that petitioner would
have to show that the relevant custom existed
throughout the State, and that proof that it had the force
of law in Hattiesburg—a political subdivision of the
State—was insufficient. This too we think was error. In
the same way that a law whose source is a town
ordinance can offend the Fourteenth Amendment even
though it has less than state-wide application, so too can
a custom with the force of law in a political subdivision
of a State offend the Fourteenth Amendment even
though it lacks state-wide application.
In summary, if petitioner can show (1) the existence of a
state-enforced custom of segregating the races in public
eating places in Hattiesburg at the time of the incident
[398 U.S. 174] in question; and (2) that Kress' refusal to
serve her was motivated by that state-enforced custom,
she will have made out a claim under § 1983.44
For the foregoing reasons we think petitioner is entitled
to a new trial on the substantive count of her complaint.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and
the case is remanded to that court for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.