The statutory words "under color of any statute,
ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State,"
42 U. S. C. § 1983, are seriously emasculated by today's
ruling. Custom, it is said, must have "the force of law";
and "law," as I read the opinion, is used in the
Hamiltonian sense.1
[398 U.S. 179] The Court requires state involvement in
the enforcement of a "custom" before that "custom" can
be actionable under 42 U. S. C. § 1983. That means,
according to the Court, that "custom" for the purposes
of § 1983 "must have the force of law by virtue of the
persistent practices of state officials." That construction
of § 1983 is, to borrow a phrase from the first Mr.
Justice Harlan, "too narrow and artificial." Civil Rights
Cases, 109 U.S. 3, 26 (dissenting opinion).
Section 1983 by its terms protects all "rights" that are
"secured by the Constitution and laws" of the United
States. There is no more basic "right" than the
exemption from discrimination on account of race—an
exemption that stems not only from the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment but
also from the Thirteenth Amendment and from a
myriad of "laws" enacted by Congress. And so far as §
1983 is concerned it is sufficient that the deprivation of
that right be "under color" of "any . . . custom . . . of any
State." The "custom" to be actionable must obviously
reflect more than the prejudices of a few; it must reflect
the dominant communal sentiment.
II
The "custom . . . of any State" can of course include the
predominant attitude backed by some direct or indirect
sanctions inscribed in law books. Thus in Garner v.
Louisiana, 368 U.S. 157, another restaurant case
involving racial discrimination, there was no state law
or municipal ordinance that in terms required
segregation of the races in restaurants. But segregation
was basic to the structure of Louisiana as a community
as revealed by a mosaic of laws. Id., at 179-181
(concurring opinion).
The same is true of Mississippi in the present case.
In 1964, at the time of the discrimination perpetrated in
this case, there were numerous Mississippi laws that
were designed to continue a regime of segregation of
[398 U.S. 180] the races. The state legislature had passed
a resolution condemning this Court's Brown v. Board of
Education decisions, 347 U.S. 483, 349 U.S. 294, as
"unconstitutional" infringements on States' rights. Miss.
Laws 1956, c. 466, Senate Concurrent Resolution No.
125. Part of the Mississippi program to perpetuate the
segregated way of life was the State Sovereignty
Commission, Miss. Code Ann. § 9028-31 et seq. (1956),
of which the Governor was chairman and which was
charged with the duty "to do and perform any and all
acts and things deemed necessary and proper to protect
the sovereignty of the State of Mississippi . . . from
encroachment thereon by the Federal Government . . . ."
Id., § 9028-35. Miss. Code Ann. § 4065.3 (1956)
required "the entire executive branch of the government
of the State of Mississippi . . . to prohibit by any lawful,
peaceful, and constitutional means, the causing of a
mixing or integration of the white and Negro races in
public schools, public parks, public waiting rooms,
public places of amusement, recreation or assembly in
this state, by any branch of the federal government . . . ."
Every word and deed of a state officer, agent, or
employee that was connected with maintaining
segregated schools in Mississippi was deemed to be "the
sovereign act . . . of the sovereign State of Mississippi."
Id., § 4065.4 (Supp. 1968). It was unlawful for a white
student to attend any school of high school or lower
level that was also attended by Negro students. Id., §
6220.5. Separate junior college districts were established
for blacks and whites. Id., § 6475-14 (1952). The
Ellisville State School for the feeble-minded was
required to provide for separate maintenance of blacks
and whites. Id., § 6766. The State Insane Hospital was
required to keep the two races separate, id., § 6883, as
was the South Mississippi Charity Hospital. Id., § 6927.
Separate entrances were required to be maintained at
state hospitals [398 U.S. 181] for black and white patients.
Id., § 6973. It was the responsibility of those in authority
to furnish a sufficient number of Negro nurses to attend
Negro patients, but the Negro nurses were to be under
the supervision of white supervisors. Id., § 6974. It was
unlawful for Negro and white convicts to be confined or
worked together. Id., § 7913 (1956). County sheriffs
were required to maintain segregated rooms in the jails.
Id., § 4259. It was unlawful for taxicab drivers to carry
black and white passengers together. Id., § 3499.
Railroad depots in cities of 3,000 or more inhabitants
were required to have separate "closets" for blacks and
whites. Id., § 7848. And it was a crime to overthrow the
segregation laws of the State. Id., § 2056 (7).
The situation was thus similar to that which existed in
Garner. Although there was no law that in terms
required segregation of the races in restaurants, it was
plain that the discrimination was perpetrated pursuant
to a deeply entrenched custom in Louisiana that was "at
least as powerful as any law." Garner v. Louisiana, supra,
at 181 (concurring opinion); cf. Robinson v. Florida,
378 U.S. 153, 156.
III
The "custom . . . of any State," however, can be much
more pervasive. It includes the unwritten commitment,
stronger than ordinances, statutes, and regulations, by
which men live and arrange their lives. Bronislaw
Malinowski, the famed anthropologist, in speaking of
the "cake of custom" of a Melanesian community
"safeguarding life, property and personality" said:2
"There is no religious sanction to these rules, no fear, superstitious
or rational, enforces them, no [398 U.S. 182] tribal punishment
visits their breach, nor even the stigma of public opinion or moral
blame. The forces which make these rules binding we shall lay bare
and find them not simple but clearly definable, not to be described
by one word or one concept, but very real none the less. The
binding forces of Melanesian civil law are to be found in the
concatenation of the obligations, in the fact that they are arranged
into chains of mutual services, a give and take extending over long
periods of time and covering wide aspects of interest and activity.
To this there is added the conspicuous and ceremonial manner in
which most of the legal obligations have to be discharged. This
binds people by an appeal to their vanity and self-regard, to their
love of self-enhancement by display. Thus the binding force of
these rules is due to the natural mental trend of self-interest,
ambition and vanity, set into play by a special social mechanism
into which the obligatory actions are framed."
This concept of "custom" is, I think, universal and as
relevant here as elsewhere. It makes apparent that our
problem under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 does not make our
sole aim the search for "state action" in the Hamiltonian
sense of "law."
That restricted kind of a search certainly is not
compelled by grammar. "Of" is a word of many
meanings, one of which indicates "the thing or person
whence anything originates, comes, is acquired or
sought." 7 Oxford English Dictionary (definition III).
The words "under color of any . . . custom . . . of any
State" do no more than describe the geographical area or
political entity in which the "custom" originates and
where it is found.
The philosophy of the Black Codes reached much
further than the sanctions actually prescribed in them.
Federal judges, who entered the early school
desegregation [398 U.S. 183] decrees, often felt the
ostracism of the community, though the local "law"
never even purported to place penalties on judges for
doing such acts. Forty years ago in Washington, D. C., a
black who was found after the sun set in the northwest
section of the District on or above Chevy Chase Circle
was arrested, though his only "crime" was waiting for a
bus to take him home after caddying at a plush golf
course in the environs. There was no "law" sanctioning
such an arrest. It was done "under color" of a "custom"
of the Nation's Capital.
Harry Golden3 recently wrote:
"Southerners drew a line and prohibited Negroes crossing it. They
doomed themselves to a lifetime of guarding that line, fearing it
would be breached. Because the white Southerner must forever
watch that line, the Negro intrudes upon the white at every level of
life."
Is not the maintenance of that line by habit a "custom?"
Title 42 U. S. C. § 1983 was derived from § 1 of the "Ku
Klux Klan Act" of 1871, 17 Stat. 13. The "under color of"
provisions of § 1 of the 1871 Act, in turn, were derived
from § 2 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866, 14 Stat. 27. The
meaning of "under color of . . . custom" in the context of
the 1866 Act is therefore relevant to the meaning of that
phrase as it is used in § 1983, for, as the Court states, the
"under color of" provisions mean the same thing for §
1983 as they do for 18 U. S. C. § 242, the direct
descendant of § 2 of the 1866 Act.4 Ante, at 152 n. 7.
[398 U.S. 184] A "custom" of the community or State was
one of the targets of the Civil Rights Act of 1866.
Section 1, which we upheld in Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer
Co., 392 U.S. 409, provided a civil remedy for specified
private acts of racial discrimination. Section 2 of that
Act provided criminal sanctions for acts done "under
color of any" custom of a State. A Congress that in 1866
was not bent only on "the nullification of racist laws,"
id., at 429, was not restricting itself strictly to state
action; it was out to ban racial discrimination partly as
respects private actions, partly under state law in the
Hamiltonian sense, and partly under the color of
"custom."
Of course, § 2 of the 1866 Act did not cover purely
private actions as did § 1 of the Act, and that was the
point of our discussion of § 2 in Jones v. Alfred H.
Mayer Co. But the Court does not come to grips with
the fact that actions taken "under color of any . . .
custom" were covered by § 2 of the 1866 Act quite apart
from [398 U.S. 185] actions taken under "color of any
statute, ordinance, [or] regulation"—in other words,
quite apart from actions taken under "color of law" in
the traditional sense. Instead, the Court seems to divide
all actions into two groups—those constituting "state
action" and those constituting purely "private
action"—with coverage of § 2 limited to the former.
While § 2 did not reach "private violations," it did reach
discrimination based on "color of custom," which is far
beyond the realm of a mere private predilection or
prejudice. And, despite the Court's suggestion to the
contrary, the use of the term "under color of law" by the
Court in Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co. was merely a
shorthand reference for all the "under color of"
provisions in § 2 and had no relevance to the specific
problem of defining the meaning of "under color of . . .
custom."5
Section 2, like § 1, involved in Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer
Co., was bottomed on the Thirteenth Amendment, for
it was enacted before the Fourteenth Amendment was
adopted. As we stated in Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co.:
"Surely Congress has the power under the Thirteenth Amendment
rationally to determine what are the badges and the incidents of
slavery, and the [398 U.S. 186] authority to translate that
determination into effective legislation." Id., at 440.
While the Privileges and Immunities Clause, the Due
Process Clause, and the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment are each protective of the
individual as against "state" action, the guarantees of the
Thirteenth Amendment and various laws of the United
States are not so restricted. And § 1983 protects not
only Fourteenth Amendment rights, but "any rights . . .
secured by the Constitution and laws." With regard to §
1983's scope of protection for violations of these rights,
Congress in § 1983 aimed partly at "state" action and it
was with that aspect of it that we were concerned in
Monroe v. Pape, 365 U.S. 167.
If the wrong done to the individual was under "color" of
"custom" alone, the ingredients of the cause of action
were satisfied.6 The adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment [398 U.S. 187] expanded the substantive
rights covered by § 1 of the 1871 Act vis-à-vis those
covered by § 2 of the 1866 Act. But that expanded
coverage did not make "state action" a necessary
ingredient in all of the remedial provisions of § 1 of the
1871 Act. Neither all of § 1 of the 1871 Act nor all of its
successor, § 1983, was intended to be conditioned by the
need for "state" complicity.
Moreover, a majority of the Court held in United States
v. Guest, 383 U.S. 745, 761, 774, 782 and n. 6, that § 5 of
the Fourteenth Amendment enables Congress to punish
interferences with constitutional rights "whether or not
state officers or others acting under the color of state
law are implicated." Id., at 782. There the statute
involved (18 U. S. C. § 241) proscribed all conspiracies
to impair any right "secured" by the Constitution. A
majority agreed that in order for a conspiracy to qualify
it need not involve any "state" action. By the same
reasoning the "custom . . . of any State" as used in § 1983
need not involve official state development,
maintenance, or participation. The reach of § 1983 is
constitutional rights, including those under the
Fourteenth Amendment; and Congress rightfully was
concerned with their full protection, whoever might be
the instigator or offender.
To repeat, § 1983 was "one of the means whereby
Congress exercised the power vested in it by § 5 of the
Fourteenth Amendment to enforce the provisions of
that Amendment." Monroe v. Pape, supra, at 171. Yet
powers exercised by Congress may stem from more than
one constitutional source. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 421; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533,
548-549; Edye v. Robertson, 112 U.S. 580, 595-596;
United States v. Gettysburg Electric R. Co., 160 U.S.
668, 683. Moreover, § 1983 protects "any rights" that
are "secured" by "the Constitution and laws" [398 U.S.
188] of the United States, which makes unmistakably
clear that § 1983 does not cover, reach, protect, or
secure only Fourteenth Amendment rights. The
Thirteenth Amendment and its enabling legislation
cover a wide range of "rights" designed to rid us of all
the badges of slavery. And, as I have said, the phrase
"under color of any . . . custom" derives from § 2 of the
1866 Act which rested on the Thirteenth Amendment
whose enforcement does not turn on "state action."7
The failure of the Court to come to face with those
realities leads to the regressive decision announced
today.
It is time we stopped being niggardly in construing civil
rights legislation. It is time we kept up with Congress
and construed its laws in the full amplitude needed to
rid their enforcement of the lingering tolerance for
racial discrimination that we sanction today.