I cannot agree that, as maintained in Part I of the
majority opinion, the counterclaim relating to the
Stelma job was compulsory under F.R.Civ.P. 13(a). Of
course, it is tempting to stretch a point when a
jurisdictional objection is so belatedly raised by the very
party who clamored for the exercise of jurisdiction until
the decision went against it. But we must consider the
question as if Heyward had not pleaded the Stelma
counterclaim and proceeded to sue D'Agostino in some
other court for failure to perform that subcontract, and
D'Agostino then claimed that Heyward's failure to bring
the Stelma transaction into this Miller Act suit barred
the later action. Despite the desirability of requiring that
all claims which in fact arise "out of the transaction or
occurrence that is the subject matter of the opposing
party's claim" be litigated in a single action, courts must
be wary of extending these words in a way that could
cause unexpectedly harsh results.
Even on a liberal notion of "logical relation," see C.
Wright, Federal Courts, § 79 at 346-47 (2d ed. 1970), I
am unable to perceive how Heyward's claim for breach
of the Stelma subcontract arose "out of the transaction
or occurrence" to wit, the Navy subcontract, that was
the subject matter of D'Agostino's Miller Act claim.
Whatever historical interest there may be in the
circumstances that the two subcontracts were entered
into between the same parties for the same type of work
and were carried on during substantially the same
period, these facts seem to me to be lacking in legal
significance. So likewise do D'Agostino's having
furnished a single insurance policy to cover both jobs
and Heyward's having cancelled the subcontracts in one
letter rather than two. The boiler-plate in each
subcontract, whereby "if one or more other contracts,
now or hereafter, exist between the parties," a breach of
any such contract by D'Agostino might, at Heyward's
option, be considered a breach of the contract at issue
and Heyward might terminate any or all contracts so
breached and withhold moneys due on any contract and
apply these to damages on any other, might meet the
[430 F.2d 1088] test if Heyward had availed itself of these
rights, but it did not.
All that is left is that, as the trial proceeded, it turned out
that some of Heyward's payments were not earmarked
as between the two subcontracts. However, the
determination whether a counterclaim is compulsory
must be made at the pleading stage. The complaint was
specific on how much Heyward owed on the Navy
subcontract, and the counterclaims were equally so on
how much D'Agostino owed for failure to complete this
and how much it owed for failure to complete the
Stelma subcontract. To say that the failure to earmark
some payments made it impossible to try the claims
separately ignores the law on application of payments. If
Heyward did not specify the application of its payments,
as it could, and D'Agostino had not made an application
of them, as it could in default of specification by
Heyward, the court would do this. Williston, Contracts,
§§ 1795, 1796, 1800 (rev. ed. 1938).
Against all this appellee relied heavily on Southern
Construction Co. v. Pickard, 371 U.S. 57, 83 S.Ct. 108, 9
L.Ed.2d 31 (1962). Since the counterclaim there at issue
was held not compulsory, the decision can scarcely be
authority that a claim like Heyward's on the Stelma
subcontract was. I think it not only is not such authority
but points just the other way. The Court there held that
where a subcontractor on two federal projects was
obliged to bring Miller Act suits in different districts
because of venue requirements, the contractor was not
obliged to counterclaim for an unallocated payment in
the first suit. I do not see how the Court could have
reached a different result if the subcontractor had one
Miller Act subcontract and another in which he could
sue only in a state or a different federal district court.
Nevertheless I think the court below had jurisdiction of
the Stelma counterclaim. I would now reject the
conventional learning, which I followed too readily in
O'Connell v. Erie Lackawanna R. R., 391 F.2d 156, 163
(1968), that the permissive counterclaim "needs
independent jurisdictional grounds to support it, with
one exception," to wit, set-off, 3 Moore, Federal Practice
¶ 13.19 at 53-54 (2d ed. 1968). The Supreme Court left
this question open in Moore v. New York Cotton
Exchange, 270 U.S. 593, 609, 46 S.Ct. 367, 70 L.Ed. 750
(1926). I read Judge Clark's fine opinion for this court in
Lesnick v. Public Industrial Corp., 144 F.2d 968, 976 n.
10 (2 Cir. 1944), as also doing this, although we cited it
in O'Connell as upholding the conventional view, as do
Professor Wright, Federal Courts 351 n. 56 (2d ed.
1970) and the majority here.
The reasons why the conventional view is wrong are set
out in detail in an article by Professor Thomas F. Green,
Jr., Federal Jurisdiction over Counterclaims, 48
N.W.U.L.Rev. 271 (1953), and nothing would be gained
by repetition. I mention only two points. One is that for
reasons there developed, id. at 277-81, Professor
Moore's sound recognition — perhaps more accurately
creation — of the exception that set-off requires no
independent jurisdictional basis, see 3 Moore, Federal
Practice, ¶ 13.19 at 54-55 n. 3; Marks v. Spitz, 4 F.R.D.
348 (D.Mass. 1945); Fraser v. Astra S. S. Corp., 18
F.R.D. 240 (S.D.N.Y.1955), carries the seeds of
destruction of the supposed general rule. The other is
that at least since United Mine Workers v. Gibbs, 383
U.S. 715, 86 S.Ct. 1130, 16 L.Ed.2d 218 (1966), it is no
longer thought the heavens will fall if a federal court
deals with a non-federal claim when it is convenient to
do so. The only argument I see against Professor Green's
position is the possibility of snowballing through a
plaintiff's permissive counterclaim in reply to the
defendant's permissive counterclaim etc. Id. at 289-90.
But that is more theoretical than real. In a diversity case
the plaintiff in all probability would already have
pleaded this in his complaint; while the problem could
arise in a federal question action, for example, if
D'Agostino had a claim against Heyward on still another
subcontract, such cases are extremely rare.
[430 F.2d 1089] If the decision were mine, I would
therefore ask that the court sit in banc and overrule the
holding in O'Connell, supra, 391 F.2d at 163, that a
permissive counterclaim requires independent
jurisdictional grounds. Since my brothers find
themselves able to affirm without doing this, I join in
the result and leave the issue for another day. On all
other points I concur in Judge Bryan's thorough
opinion.