The controversy in this case concerns the
constitutionality of a Delaware statute that allows a
court of that State to take jurisdiction of a lawsuit by
sequestering any property of the defendant that happens
to be located in Delaware. Appellants contend that the
sequestration statute as applied in this case violates the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment both
because it permits the state courts to exercise
jurisdiction despite the absence of sufficient contacts
among the defendants, the litigation, and the State of
Delaware and because it authorizes the deprivation of
defendants' property without providing adequate
procedural safeguards. We find it necessary to consider
only the first of these contentions.
I
Appellee Heitner, a nonresident of Delaware, is the
owner of one share of stock in the Greyhound Corp., a
business incorporated under the laws of Delaware with
its principal place of business in Phoenix, Ariz. On May
22, 1974, he filed a shareholder's derivative suit in the
Court of Chancery for New Castle County, Del., in
which he named as defendants Greyhound, its wholly
owned subsidiary Greyhound Lines, Inc.,1 and 28
present or former officers or directors of one or [433
U.S. 190] both of the corporations. In essence, Heitner
alleged that the individual defendants had violated their
duties to Greyhound by causing it and its subsidiary to
engage in actions that resulted in the corporations being
held liable for substantial damages in a private antitrust
suit2 and a large fine in a criminal contempt action.3
The activities which led to these penalties took place in
Oregon.
Simultaneously with his complaint, Heitner filed a
motion for an order of sequestration of the Delaware
property of the individual defendants pursuant to Del.
Code Ann., Tit. 10, § 366 (1975).4 This motion was
accompanied by a supporting [433 U.S. 191] affidavit of
counsel which stated that the individual defendants were
nonresidents of Delaware. The affidavit identified the
property to be sequestered as
"common stock, 3% Second Cumulative Preferenced Stock and
stock unit credits of the Defendant Greyhound Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, as well as all options and all warrants to
purchase said stock issued to said individual Defendants and all
contractural [sic] obligations, all rights, debts or credits due or
accrued to or for the benefit of any of the said Defendants under
any type of written agreement, contract or other legal instrument of
any kind whatever between any of the individual Defendants and
said corporation."
The requested sequestration order was signed the day
the motion was filed.5 Pursuant to that order, the
sequestrator6 [433 U.S. 192] "seized" approximately
82,000 shares of Greyhound common stock belonging to
19 of the defendants,7 and options belonging to another
2 defendants.8 These seizures were accomplished by
placing "stop transfer" orders or their equivalents on the
books of the Greyhound Corp. So far as the record
shows, none of the certificates representing the seized
property was physically present in Delaware. The stock
was considered to be in Delaware, and so subject to
seizure, by virtue of Del. Code Ann., Tit. 8, § 169
(1975), which makes Delaware the situs of ownership of
all stock in Delaware corporations.9
All 28 defendants were notified of the initiation of the
suit by certified mail directed to their last known
addresses and by publication in a New Castle County
newspaper. The 21 defendants whose property was
seized (hereafter referred to as appellants) responded by
entering a special appearance for [433 U.S. 193] the
purpose of moving to quash service of process and to
vacate the sequestration order. They contended that the
ex parte sequestration procedure did not accord them
due process of law and that the property seized was not
capable of attachment in Delaware. In addition,
appellants asserted that under the rule of International
Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945), they did
not have sufficient contacts with Delaware to sustain the
jurisdiction of that State's courts.
The Court of Chancery rejected these arguments in a
letter opinion which emphasized the purpose of the
Delaware sequestration procedure:
"The primary purpose of `sequestration' as authorized by 10 Del. C.
§ 366 is not to secure possession of property pending a trial
between resident debtors and creditors on the issue of who has the
right to retain it. On the contrary, as here employed, `sequestration'
is a process used to compel the personal appearance of a
nonresident defendant to answer and defend a suit brought against
him in a court of equity. Sands v. Lefcourt Realty Corp., Del. Supr.,
117 A.2d 365 (1955). It is accomplished by the appointment of a
sequestrator by this Court to seize and hold property of the
nonresident located in this State subject to further Court order. If
the defendant enters a general appearance, the sequestered property
is routinely released, unless the plaintiff makes special application to
continue its seizure, in which event the plaintiff has the burden of
proof and persuasion." App. 75-76.
This limitation on the purpose and length of time for
which sequestered property is held, the court concluded,
rendered inapplicable the due process requirements
enunciated in Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., 395
U.S. 337 (1969); Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U.S. 67 (1972);
and Mitchell v. W. T. Grant Co., 416 U.S. 600 (1974).
App. 75-76, 80, 83-85. The court also found no statelaw
or federal constitutional barrier to the sequestrator's
reliance on Del. Code Ann., Tit. 8, § 169 [433 U.S. 194]
(1975). App. 76-79. Finally, the court held that the
statutory Delaware situs of the stock provided a
sufficient basis for the exercise of quasi in rem
jurisdiction by a Delaware court. Id., at 85-87.
On appeal, the Delaware Supreme Court affirmed the
judgment of the Court of Chancery. Greyhound Corp. v.
Heitner, 361 A.2d 225 (1976). Most of the Supreme
Court's opinion was devoted to rejecting appellants'
contention that the sequestration procedure is
inconsistent with the due process analysis developed in
the Sniadach line of cases. The court based its rejection
of that argument in part on its agreement with the
Court of Chancery that the purpose of the sequestration
procedure is to compel the appearance of the defendant,
a purpose not involved in the Sniadach cases. The court
also relied on what it considered the ancient origins of
the sequestration procedure and approval of that
procedure in the opinions of this Court,10 Delaware's
interest in asserting jurisdiction to adjudicate claims of
mismanagement of a Delaware corporation, and the
safeguards for defendants that it found in the Delaware
statute. 361 A. 2d, at 230-236.
[433 U.S. 195] Appellants' claim that the Delaware courts
did not have jurisdiction to adjudicate this action
received much more cursory treatment. The court's
analysis of the jurisdictional issue is contained in two
paragraphs:
"There are significant constitutional questions at issue here but we
say at once that we do not deem the rule of International Shoe to be
one of them. . . . The reason, of course, is that jurisdiction under §
366 remains . . . quasi in rem founded on the presence of capital
stock here, not on prior contact by defendants with this forum.
Under 8 Del. C. § 169 the `situs of the ownership of the capital
stock of all corporations existing under the laws of this State . . . [is]
in this State,' and that provides the initial basis for jurisdiction.
Delaware may constitutionally establish situs of such shares here, . .
. it has done so and the presence thereof provides the foundation
for § 366 in this case. . . . On this issue we agree with the analysis
made and the conclusion reached by Judge Stapleton in U. S.
Industries, Inc. v. Gregg, D. Del., 348 F.Supp. 1004 (1972).[11 ]
"We hold that seizure of the Greyhound shares is not invalid
because plaintiff has failed to meet the prior contacts tests of
International Shoe." Id., at 229.
We noted probable jurisdiction. 429 U.S. 813.12 We
reverse.
[433 U.S. 196] II
The Delaware courts rejected appellants' jurisdictional
challenge by noting that this suit was brought as a quasi
in rem proceeding. Since quasi in rem jurisdiction is
traditionally based on attachment or seizure of property
present in the jurisdiction, not on contacts between the
defendant and the State, the courts considered
appellants' claimed lack of contacts with Delaware to be
unimportant. This categorical analysis assumes the
continued soundness of the conceptual structure
founded on the century-old case of Pennoyer v. Neff, 95
U.S. 714 (1878).
Pennoyer was an ejectment action brought in federal
court under the diversity jurisdiction. Pennoyer, the
defendant in that action, held the land under a deed
purchased in a sheriff's sale conducted to realize on a
judgment for attorney's fees obtained against Neff in a
previous action by one Mitchell. At the time of
Mitchell's suit in an Oregon State court, Neff was a
nonresident of Oregon. An Oregon statute allowed
service by publication on nonresidents who had
property in the State,13 and Mitchell had used that
procedure to bring Neff [433 U.S. 197] before the court.
The United States Circuit Court for the District of
Oregon, in which Neff brought his ejectment action,
refused to recognize the validity of the judgment against
Neff in Mitchell's suit, and accordingly awarded the land
to Neff.14 This Court affirmed.
Mr. Justice Field's opinion for the Court focused on the
territorial limits of the States' judicial powers. Although
recognizing that the States are not truly independent
sovereigns, Mr. Justice Field found that their
jurisdiction was defined by the "principles of public law"
that regulate the relationships among independent
nations. The first of those principles was "that every
State possesses exclusive jurisdiction and sovereignty
over persons and property within its territory." The
second was "that no State can exercise direct jurisdiction
and authority over persons or property without its
territory." Id., at 722. Thus, "in virtue of the State's
jurisdiction over the property of the non-resident
situated within its limits," the state courts "can inquire
into that non-resident's obligations to its own citizens . .
. to the extent necessary to control the disposition of the
property." Id., at 723. The Court recognized that if the
conclusions of that inquiry were adverse to the
nonresident property owner, his interest in the property
would be affected. Ibid. Similarly, if the defendant
consented to the jurisdiction of the state courts or was
personally served within the State, a judgment could
affect his interest in property outside the State. But any
attempt "directly" to assert extraterritorial jurisdiction
over persons or property would offend sister States and
exceed the inherent limits of the State's power. A
judgment resulting from such an attempt, Mr. Justice
Field concluded, was not only unenforceable [433 U.S.
198] in other States,15 but was also void in the rendering
State because it had been obtained in violation of the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Id.,
at 732-733. See also, e. g., Freeman v. Alderson, 119 U.S.
185, 187-188 (1886).
This analysis led to the conclusion that Mitchell's
judgment against Neff could not be validly based on the
State's power over persons within its borders, because
Neff had not been personally served in Oregon, nor had
he consensually appeared before the Oregon court. The
Court reasoned that even if Neff had received personal
notice of the action, service of process outside the State
would have been ineffectual since the State's power was
limited by its territorial boundaries. Moreover, the
Court held, the action could not be sustained on the
basis of the State's power over property within its
borders because that property had not been brought
before the court by attachment or any other procedure
prior to judgment.16 Since the judgment which
authorized the sheriff's sale was therefore invalid, the
sale transferred no title. Neff regained his land.
From our perspective, the importance of Pennoyer is
not its result, but the fact that its principles and
corollaries derived from them became the basic elements
of the constitutional [433 U.S. 199] doctrine governing
state-court jurisdiction. See, e. g., Hazard, A General
Theory of State-Court Jurisdiction, 1965 Sup. Ct. Rev.
241 (hereafter Hazard). As we have noted, under
Pennoyer state authority to adjudicate was based on the
jurisdiction's power over either persons or property.
This fundamental concept is embodied in the very
vocabulary which we use to describe judgments. If a
court's jurisdiction is based on its authority over the
defendant's person, the action and judgment are
denominated "in personam" and can impose a personal
obligation on the defendant in favor of the plaintiff. If
jurisdiction is based on the court's power over property
within its territory, the action is called "in rem" or "quasi
in rem." The effect of a judgment in such a case is
limited to the property that supports jurisdiction and
does not impose a personal liability on the property
owner, since he is not before the court.17 In Pennoyer's
terms, the owner is affected only "indirectly" by an in
rem judgment adverse to his interest in the property
subject to the court's disposition.
By concluding that "[t]he authority of every tribunal is
necessarily restricted by the territorial limits of the State
in which it is established," 95 U. S., at 720, Pennoyer
sharply limited the availability of in personam
jurisdiction over defendants not resident in the forum
State. If a nonresident defendant could not be found in a
State, he could not be sued there. On the other hand,
since the State in which property [433 U.S. 200] was
located was considered to have exclusive sovereignty
over that property, in rem actions could proceed
regardless of the owner's location. Indeed, since a State's
process could not reach beyond its borders, this Court
held after Pennoyer that due process did not require any
effort to give a property owner personal notice that his
property was involved in an in rem proceeding. See, e.
g., Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U.S. 241 (1907); Arndt v.
Griggs, 134 U.S. 316 (1890); Huling v. Kaw Valley R.
Co., 130 U.S. 559 (1889).
The Pennoyer rules generally favored nonresident
defendants by making them harder to sue. This
advantage was reduced, however, by the ability of a
resident plaintiff to satisfy a claim against a nonresident
defendant by bringing into court any property of the
defendant located in the plaintiff's State. See, e. g.,
Zammit, Quasi-In-Rem Jurisdiction: Outmoded and
Unconstitutional?, 49 St. John's L. Rev. 668, 670 (1975).
For example, in the well-known case of Harris v. Balk,
198 U.S. 215 (1905), Epstein, a resident of Maryland,
had a claim against Balk, a resident of North Carolina.
Harris, another North Carolina resident, owed money to
Balk. When Harris happened to visit Maryland, Epstein
garnished his debt to Balk. Harris did not contest the
debt to Balk and paid it to Epstein's North Carolina
attorney. When Balk later sued Harris in North
Carolina, this Court held that the Full Faith and Credit
Clause, U. S. Const., Art. IV, § 1, required that Harris'
payment to Epstein be treated as a discharge of his debt
to Balk. This Court reasoned that the debt Harris owed
Balk was an intangible form of property belonging to
Balk, and that the location of that property traveled with
the debtor. By obtaining personal jurisdiction over
Harris, Epstein had "arrested" his debt to Balk, 198 U. S.,
at 223, and brought it into the Maryland court. Under
the structure established by Pennoyer, Epstein was then
entitled to proceed against that debt to vindicate his
claim against Balk, even though Balk himself was not
subject to the jurisdiction [433 U.S. 201] of a Maryland
tribunal.18 See also, e. g., Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Deer,
200 U.S. 176 (1906); Steele v. G. D. Searle & Co., 483
F.2d 339 (CA5 1973), cert. denied, 415 U.S. 958 (1974).
Pennoyer itself recognized that its rigid categories, even
as blurred by the kind of action typified by Harris, could
not accommodate some necessary litigation.
Accordingly, Mr. Justice Field's opinion carefully noted
that cases involving the personal status of the plaintiff,
such as divorce actions, could be adjudicated in the
plaintiff's home State even though the defendant could
not be served within that State. 95 U. S., at 733-735.
Similarly, the opinion approved the practice of
considering a foreign corporation doing business in a
State to have consented to being sued in that State. Id.,
at 735-736; see Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How.
404 (1856). This [433 U.S. 202] basis for in personam
jurisdiction over foreign corporations was later
supplemented by the doctrine that a corporation doing
business in a State could be deemed "present" in the
State, and so subject to service of process under the rule
of Pennoyer. See, e. g., International Harvester Co. v.
Kentucky, 234 U.S. 579 (1914); Philadelphia & Reading
R. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U.S. 264 (1917). See generally
Note, Developments in the Law, State-Court
Jurisdiction, 73 Harv. L. Rev. 909, 919-923 (1960)
(hereafter Developments).
The advent of automobiles, with the concomitant
increase in the incidence of individuals causing injury in
States where they were not subject to in personam
actions under Pennoyer, required further moderation of
the territorial limits on jurisdictional power. This
modification, like the accommodation to the realities of
interstate corporate activities, was accomplished by use
of a legal fiction that left the conceptual structure
established in Pennoyer theoretically unaltered. Cf.
Olberding v. Illinois Central R. Co., 346 U.S. 338, 340-
341 (1953). The fiction used was that the out-of-state
motorist, who it was assumed could be excluded
altogether from the State's highways, had by using those
highways appointed a designated state official as his
agent to accept process. See Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U.S.
352 (1927). Since the motorist's "agent" could be
personally served within the State, the state courts could
obtain in personam jurisdiction over the nonresident
driver.
The motorists' consent theory was easy to administer
since it required only a finding that the out-of-state
driver had used the State's roads. By contrast, both the
fictions of implied consent to service on the part of a
foreign corporation and of corporate presence required
a finding that the corporation was "doing business" in
the forum State. Defining the criteria for making that
finding and deciding whether they were met absorbed
much judicial energy. See, e. g., International Shoe Co.
v. Washington, 326 U. S., at 317-319.[433 U.S. 203]
While the essentially quantitative tests which emerged
from these cases purported simply to identify
circumstances under which presence or consent could
be attributed to the corporation, it became clear that
they were in fact attempting to ascertain "what dealings
make it just to subject a foreign corporation to local
suit." Hutchinson v. Chase & Gilbert, 45 F.2d 139, 141
(CA2 1930) (L. Hand, J.). In International Shoe, we
acknowledged that fact.
The question in International Shoe was whether the
corporation was subject to the judicial and taxing
jurisdiction of Washington. Mr. Chief Justice Stone's
opinion for the Court began its analysis of that question
by noting that the historical basis of in personam
jurisdiction was a court's power over the defendant's
person. That power, however, was no longer the central
concern:
"But now that the capias ad respondendum has given way to
personal service of summons or other form of notice, due process
requires only that in order to subject a defendant to a judgment in
personam, if he be not present within the territory of the forum, he
have certain minimum contacts with it such that the maintenance
of the suit does not offend `traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.' Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U.S. 457, 463." 326 U. S.,
at 316.
Thus, the inquiry into the State's jurisdiction over a
foreign corporation appropriately focused not on
whether the corporation was "present" but on whether
there have been
"such contacts of the corporation with the state of the forum as
make it reasonable, in the context of our federal system of
government, to require the corporation to defend the particular suit
which is brought there." Id., at 317.
[433 U.S. 204] Mechanical or quantitative evaluations of
the defendant's activities in the forum could not resolve
the question of reasonableness:
"Whether due process is satisfied must depend rather upon the
quality and nature of the activity in relation to the fair and orderly
administration of the laws which it was the purpose of the due
process clause to insure. That clause does not contemplate that a
state may make binding a judgment in personam against an
individual or corporate defendant with which the state has no
contacts, ties, or relations." Id., at 319.19
Thus, the relationship among the defendant, the forum,
and the litigation, rather than the mutually exclusive
sovereignty of the States on which the rules of Pennoyer
rest, became the central concern of the inquiry into
personal jurisdiction.20 The immediate effect of this
departure from Pennoyer's conceptual apparatus was to
increase the ability of the state courts to obtain personal
jurisdiction over nonresident defendants. See, e. g.,
Green, Jurisdictional Reform in California, [433 U.S.
205] 21 Hastings L. J. 1219, 1231-1233 (1970); Currie,
The Growth of the Long Arm: Eight Years of Extended
Jurisdiction in Illinois, 1963 U. Ill. L. F. 533;
Developments 1000-1008.
No equally dramatic change has occurred in the law
governing jurisdiction in rem. There have, however,
been intimations that the collapse of the in personam
wing of Pennoyer has not left that decision unweakened
as a foundation for in rem jurisdiction. Well-reasoned
lower court opinions have questioned the proposition
that the presence of property in a State gives that State
jurisdiction to adjudicate rights to the property
regardless of the relationship of the underlying dispute
and the property owner to the forum. See, e. g., U. S.
Industries, Inc. v. Gregg, 540 F.2d 142 (CA3 1976), cert.
pending, No. 76-359; Jonnet v. Dollar Savings Bank, 530
F.2d 1123, 1130-1143 (CA3 1976) (Gibbons, J.,
concurring); Camire v. Scieszka, 116 N.H. 281, 358 A.2d
397 (1976); Bekins v. Huish, 1 Ariz.App. 258, 401 P.2d
743 (1965); Atkinson v. Superior Court, 49 Cal.2d 338,
316 P.2d 960 (1957), appeal dismissed and cert. denied
sub nom. Columbia Broadcasting System v. Atkinson,
357 U.S. 569 (1958). The overwhelming majority of
commentators have also rejected Pennoyer's premise
that a proceeding "against" property is not a proceeding
against the owners of that property. Accordingly, they
urge that the "traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice" that govern a State's power to
adjudicate in personam should also govern its power to
adjudicate personal rights to property located in the
State. See, e. g., Von Mehren & Trautman, Jurisdiction
to Adjudicate: A Suggested Analysis, 79 Harv. L. Rev.
1121 (1966) (hereafter Von Mehren & Trautman);
Traynor, Is This Conflict Really Necessary?, 37 Texas L.
Rev. 657 (1959) (hereafter Traynor); Ehrenzweig, The
Transient Rule of Personal Jurisdiction: The "Power"
Myth and Forum Conveniens, 65 Yale L. J. 289 (1956);
Developments; Hazard.
[433 U.S. 206] Although this Court has not addressed
this argument directly, we have held that property
cannot be subjected to a court's judgment unless
reasonable and appropriate efforts have been made to
give the property owners actual notice of the action.
Schroeder v. City of New York, 371 U.S. 208 (1962);
Walker v. City of Hutchinson, 352 U.S. 112 (1956);
Mullane v. Central Hanover Bank & Trust Co., 339 U.S.
306 (1950). This conclusion recognizes, contrary to
Pennoyer, that an adverse judgment in rem directly
affects the property owner by divesting him of his rights
in the property before the court. Schroeder v. City of
New York, supra, at 213; cf. Continental Grain Co. v.
Barge FBL-585, 364 U.S. 19 (1960) (separate actions
against barge and barge owner are one "civil action" for
purpose of transfer under 28 U. S. C. § 1404 (a)).
Moreover, in Mullane we held that Fourteenth
Amendment rights cannot depend on the classification
of an action as in rem or in personam, since that is
"a classification for which the standards are so elusive and confused
generally and which, being primarily for state courts to define, may
and do vary from state to state." 339 U. S., at 312.
It is clear, therefore, that the law of state-court
jurisdiction no longer stands securely on the foundation
established in Pennoyer.21 We think that the time is ripe
to consider whether the standard of fairness and
substantial justice set forth in International Shoe should
be held to govern actions in rem as well as in personam.
[433 U.S. 207] III
The case for applying to jurisdiction in rem the same
test of "fair play and substantial justice" as governs
assertions of jurisdiction in personam is simple and
straightforward. It is premised on recognition that
"[t]he phrase, `judicial jurisdiction over a thing,' is a
customary elliptical way of referring to jurisdiction over
the interests of persons in a thing." Restatement
(Second) of Conflict of Laws § 56, Introductory Note
(1971) (hereafter Restatement).22 This recognition leads
to the conclusion that in order to justify an exercise of
jurisdiction in rem, the basis for jurisdiction must be
sufficient to justify exercising "jurisdiction over the
interests of persons in a thing."23 The standard for
determining whether an exercise of jurisdiction over the
interests of persons is consistent with the Due Process
Clause is the minimum-contacts standard elucidated in
International Shoe.
This argument, of course, does not ignore the fact that
the presence of property in a State may bear on the
existence of jurisdiction by providing contacts among
the forum State, the defendant, and the litigation. For
example, when claims to the property itself are the
source of the underlying controversy between the
plaintiff and the defendant,24 it would be unusual for the
State where the property is located not to have
jurisdiction. In such cases, the defendant's claim to
property [433 U.S. 208] located in the State would
normally25 indicate that he expected to benefit from the
State's protection of his interest.26 The State's strong
interests in assuring the marketability of property
within its borders27 and in providing a procedure for
peaceful resolution of disputes about the possession of
that property would also support jurisdiction, as would
the likelihood that important records and witnesses will
be found in the State.28 The presence of property may
also favor jurisdiction in cases, such as suits for injury
suffered on the land of an absentee owner, where the
defendant's ownership of the property is conceded but
the cause of action is otherwise related to rights and
duties growing out of that ownership.29
It appears, therefore, that jurisdiction over many types
of actions which now are or might be brought in rem
would not be affected by a holding that any assertion of
state-court jurisdiction must satisfy the International
Shoe standard.30 For the type of quasi in rem action
typified by Harris v. Balk and the present case, however,
accepting the proposed analysis would result in
significant change. These are cases where [433 U.S. 209]
the property which now serves as the basis for statecourt
jurisdiction is completely unrelated to the
plaintiff's cause of action. Thus, although the presence
of the defendant's property in a State might suggest the
existence of other ties among the defendant, the State,
and the litigation, the presence of the property alone
would not support the State's jurisdiction. If those other
ties did not exist, cases over which the State is now
thought to have jurisdiction could not be brought in that
forum.
Since acceptance of the International Shoe test would
most affect this class of cases, we examine the arguments
against adopting that standard as they relate to this
category of litigation.31 Before doing so, however, we
note that this type of case also presents the clearest
illustration of the argument in favor of assessing
assertions of jurisdiction by a single standard. For in
cases such as Harris and this one, the only role played by
the property is to provide the basis for bringing the
defendant into court.32 Indeed, the express purpose of
the Delaware sequestration procedure is to compel the
defendant to enter a personal appearance.33 In such
cases, if a direct assertion of personal jurisdiction over
the defendant would violate the Constitution, it would
seem that an indirect assertion of that jurisdiction
should be equally impermissible.
[433 U.S. 210] The primary rationale for treating the
presence of property as a sufficient basis for jurisdiction
to adjudicate claims over which the State would not
have jurisdiction if International Shoe applied is that a
wrongdoer
"should not be able to avoid payment of his obligations by the
expedient of removing his assets to a place where he is not subject
to an in personam suit." Restatement § 66, Comment a.
Accord, Developments 955. This justification, however,
does not explain why jurisdiction should be recognized
without regard to whether the property is present in the
State because of an effort to avoid the owner's
obligations. Nor does it support jurisdiction to
adjudicate the underlying claim. At most, it suggests that
a State in which property is located should have
jurisdiction to attach that property, by use of proper
procedures,34 as security for a judgment being sought in
a forum where the litigation can be maintained
consistently with International Shoe. See, e. g., Von
Mehren & Trautman 1178; Hazard 284-285; Beale,
supra, n. 18, at 123-124. Moreover, we know of nothing
to justify the assumption that a debtor can avoid paying
his obligations by removing his property to a State in
which his creditor cannot obtain personal jurisdiction
over him.35 The Full Faith and Credit Clause, after all,
makes the valid in personam judgment of one State
enforceable in all other States.36
[433 U.S. 211] It might also be suggested that allowing in
rem jurisdiction avoids the uncertainty inherent in the
International Shoe standard and assures a plaintiff of a
forum.37 See Folk & Moyer, supra, n. 10, at 749, 767.
We believe, however, that the fairness standard of
International Shoe can be easily applied in the vast
majority of cases. Moreover, when the existence of
jurisdiction in a particular forum under International
Shoe is unclear, the cost of simplifying the litigation by
avoiding the jurisdictional question may be the sacrifice
of "fair play and substantial justice." That cost is too
high.
We are left, then, to consider the significance of the
long history of jurisdiction based solely on the presence
of property in a State. Although the theory that
territorial power is both essential to and sufficient for
jurisdiction has been undermined, we have never held
that the presence of property in a State does not
automatically confer jurisdiction over the owner's
interest in that property.38 This history must be [433
U.S. 212] considered as supporting the proposition that
jurisdiction based solely on the presence of property
satisfies the demands of due process, cf. Ownbey v.
Morgan, 256 U.S. 94, 111 (1921), but it is not decisive.
"[T]raditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice" can be as readily offended by the perpetuation of
ancient forms that are no longer justified as by the
adoption of new procedures that are inconsistent with
the basic values of our constitutional heritage. Cf.
Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., 395 U. S., at 340;
Wolf v. Colorado, 338 U.S. 25, 27 (1949). The fiction
that an assertion of jurisdiction over property is
anything but an assertion of jurisdiction over the owner
of the property supports an ancient form without
substantial modern justification. Its continued
acceptance would serve only to allow state-court
jurisdiction that is fundamentally unfair to the
defendant.
We therefore conclude that all assertions of state-court
jurisdiction must be evaluated according to the
standards set forth in International Shoe and its
progeny.39
[433 U.S. 213] IV
The Delaware courts based their assertion of jurisdiction
in this case solely on the statutory presence of
appellants' property in Delaware. Yet that property is
not the subject matter of this litigation, nor is the
underlying cause of action related to the property.
Appellants' holdings in Greyhound do not, therefore,
provide contacts with Delaware sufficient to support the
jurisdiction of that State's courts over appellants. If it
exists, that jurisdiction must have some other
foundation.40
Appellee Heitner did not allege and does not now claim
that appellants have ever set foot in Delaware. Nor does
he identify any act related to his cause of action as
having taken place in Delaware. Nevertheless, he
contends that appellants' positions as directors and
officers of a corporation chartered in Delaware41
provide sufficient "contacts, ties, or relations,"
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U. S., at
319,[433 U.S. 214] with that State to give its courts
jurisdiction over appellants in this stockholder's
derivative action. This argument is based primarily on
what Heitner asserts to be the strong interest of
Delaware in supervising the management of a Delaware
corporation. That interest is said to derive from the role
of Delaware law in establishing the corporation and
defining the obligations owed to it by its officers and
directors. In order to protect this interest, appellee
concludes, Delaware's courts must have jurisdiction over
corporate fiduciaries such as appellants.
This argument is undercut by the failure of the
Delaware Legislature to assert the state interest appellee
finds so compelling. Delaware law bases jurisdiction, not
on appellants' status as corporate fiduciaries, but rather
on the presence of their property in the State. Although
the sequestration procedure used here may be most
frequently used in derivative suits against officers and
directors, Hughes Tool Co. v. Fawcett Publications, Inc.,
290 A.2d 693, 695 (Del. Ch. 1972), the authorizing
statute evinces no specific concern with such actions.
Sequestration can be used in any suit against a
nonresident,42 see, e. g., U. S. Industries, Inc. v. Gregg,
540 F.2d 142 (CA3 1976), cert. pending, No. 76-359
(breach of contract); Hughes Tool Co. v. Fawcett
Publications, Inc., supra (same), and reaches corporate
fiduciaries only if they happen to own interests in a
Delaware corporation, or other property in the State.
But as Heitner's failure to secure jurisdiction over seven
of the defendants named in his complaint demonstrates,
there is no necessary relationship between holding a
position as a corporate fiduciary and owning stock or
other interests in the corporation.43 If Delaware
perceived its interest in securing jurisdiction over
corporate fiduciaries [433 U.S. 215] to be as great as
Heitner suggests, we would expect it to have enacted a
statute more clearly designed to protect that interest.
Moreover, even if Heitner's assessment of the
importance of Delaware's interest is accepted, his
argument fails to demonstrate that Delaware is a fair
forum for this litigation. The interest appellee has
identified may support the application of Delaware law
to resolve any controversy over appellants' actions in
their capacities as officers and directors.44 But we have
rejected the argument that if a State's law can properly
be applied to a dispute, its courts necessarily have
jurisdiction over the parties to that dispute.
"[The State] does not acquire . . . jurisdiction by being the `center of
gravity' of the controversy, or the most convenient location for
litigation. The issue is personal jurisdiction, not choice of law. It is
resolved in this case by considering the acts of the [appellants]."
Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U.S. 235, 254 (1958).45
Appellee suggests that by accepting positions as officers
or directors of a Delaware corporation, appellants
performed the acts required by Hanson v. Denckla. He
notes that Delaware law provides substantial benefits to
corporate officers and directors,46 and that these benefits
were at least in part [433 U.S. 216] the incentive for
appellants to assume their positions. It is, he says, "only
fair and just" to require appellants, in return for these
benefits, to respond in the State of Delaware when they
are accused of misusing their power. Brief for Appellee
15.
But like Heitner's first argument, this line of reasoning
establishes only that it is appropriate for Delaware law
to govern the obligations of appellants to Greyhound
and its stockholders. It does not demonstrate that
appellants have "purposefully avail[ed themselves] of the
privilege of conducting activities within the forum
State," Hanson v. Denckla, supra, at 253, in a way that
would justify bringing them before a Delaware tribunal.
Appellants have simply had nothing to do with the State
of Delaware. Moreover, appellants had no reason to
expect to be haled before a Delaware court. Delaware,
unlike some States,47 has not enacted a statute that treats
acceptance of a directorship as consent to jurisdiction in
the State. And "[i]t strains reason . . . to suggest that
anyone buying securities in a corporation formed in
Delaware `impliedly consents' to subject himself to
Delaware's. . . jurisdiction on any cause of action." Folk
& Moyer, supra, n. 10, at 785. Appellants, who were not
required to acquire interests in Greyhound in order to
hold their positions, did not by acquiring those interests
surrender their right to be brought to judgment only in
States with which they had had "minimum contacts."
The Due Process Clause
"does not contemplate that a state may make binding a judgment . . .
against an individual or corporate defendant with which the state
has no contacts, ties, or relations." International Shoe Co. v.
Washington, 326 U. S., at 319.
Delaware's assertion of jurisdiction over appellants in
this case is inconsistent with that constitutional
limitation on [433 U.S. 217] state power. The judgment
of the Delaware Supreme Court must, therefore, be
reversed.
It is so ordered.