This is an appeal from an order of the district court, 320
F.Supp. 816, granting plaintiff's motion for a
preliminary injunction against defendant's licensing or
contracting to license the showing of a particular
motion picture at any theatre within the Philadelphia
area other than that owned by plaintiff.
In April of 1970, defendant (Columbia), a motion
picture distributor, granted to plaintiff (The 1812), the
owner and operator of The 1812 Theatre, a license for
the exclusive first-run Philadelphia exhibition of a
motion picture entitled "Husbands." Shortly after the
licensing agreement was executed, however, Columbia
notified The 1812 that it would not be able to deliver
"Husbands" on or about the proposed delivery date of
July 8, 1970
1 
 because of difficulties between Columbia
and John Cassavetes, the producer of the motion
picture, concerning the final cutting of the film. After a
delay of several more months, Columbia finally
informed The 1812 that it was invoking a clause in the
agreement which purportedly terminated the license
whenever Columbia, for reasons beyond its direct
control, failed to obtain timely delivery from the
producer. Columbia therefore told The 1812 that it
intended to solicit new bids from all Greater
Philadelphia first-run theatres for the exclusive license
to exhibit "Husbands." Denying that the agreement had
terminated, The 1812 then brought the present diversity
action, seeking to enjoin Columbia from resubmitting
"Husbands" for bids, to compel specific performance of
its licensing agreement with Columbia, and to recover
damages.
After a hearing on plaintiff's motion for a preliminary
injunction, the district court interpreted the licensing
agreement as not being subject to termination by
Columbia merely because of the producer's 
[440 F.2d
763]
 failure to make timely delivery. Ruling that every
motion picture is a "unique" production and that The
1812's inability to obtain "Husbands" might cause an
intangible loss of good will, which it described as
"theatre momentum," the court concluded that The
1812 would not have an adequate remedy at law for
breach of contract since proof of damages would be
difficult and speculative, if not impossible. The court
thus found a probability that plaintiff would ultimately
be successful on the merits and preliminarily enjoined
Columbia from licensing the movie to any exhibitor in
Philadelphia except The 1812. Unless the status quo
were preserved, the court reasoned, plaintiff's rights
under its license might be lost forever. If the preliminary
injunction were ultimately determined to have been
improvidently granted, on the other hand, Columbia
would only sustain pecuniary damages, which could be
prevented by requiring The 1812 to post a substantial
bond.
2
As a prerequisite to the issuance of a preliminary
injunction the moving party must generally show: (1) a
reasonable probability of eventual success in the
litigation, and (2) that it will be irreparably injured
pendente lite if relief is not granted to prevent a change
in the status quo. Ikirt v. Lee National Corp., 358 F.2d
726, 727 (3d Cir. 1966). In applying these criteria, a
district court must have considerable discretion because
of the infinite variety of situations which may confront
it. Nevertheless, its discretion is not unlimited and must
be guided by the traditional principles of equity.
Without reaching the substantial question of
contractual interpretation decided by the district court,
we find that plaintiff has failed to satisfy the second of
the above prerequisites for interlocutory injunctive
relief.
Admittedly, the denial of a preliminary injunction in
this case would permit Columbia to resolicit bids on
"Husbands," with the resulting possibility that plaintiff's
asserted rights to the film will be lost. This injury cannot
be considered "irreparable," however, unless plaintiff
demonstrates that its legal remedies are either
inadequate or impracticable. Generally speaking a
breach of contract results in irreparable injury
warranting equitable relief in two types of cases:
"1. Where the subject-matter of the contract is of such a special
nature, or of such a peculiar value, that the damages, when
ascertained according to legal rules, would not be a just and
reasonable substitute for or representative of that subject-matter in
the hands of the party who is entitled to its benefit; or in other
words, where the damages are inadequate;
2. Where, from some special and practical features or incidents of
the contract inhering either in its subject-matter, in its terms, or in
the relations of the parties, it is impossible to arrive at a legal
measure of damages at all, or at least with any sufficient degree of
certainty, so that no real compensation can be obtained by means of
an action at law; or in other words, where damages are
impracticable."
4 Pomeroy, Treatise on Equity Jurisprudence 
§
 1401, at
1033-34 (5th Ed. 1941) (emphasis in original); see
Philadelphia Ball Club v. Lajoie, 202 Pa. 210, 51 A. 973,
974 (1902).
Against this legal background, plaintiff asserts that its
injury from the denial of a preliminary injunction
cannot be adequately compensated by monetary
damages because "Husbands," like all movies, is a unique
production which will have a distinctive effect upon The
1812's "theatre momentum." Plaintiff further contends
that damages would be impracticable because, if The
1812 does not acquire this particular picture, the value
of its lost "momentum" will be impossible to calculate
with any reasonable degree of certainty. Despite these
contentions, 
[440 F.2d 764]
 we think that plaintiff has
failed to prove that its injury will in fact be irreparable
so as to make interlocutory equitable relief appropriate
in this case.
It is true that every motion picture is unique in the sense
that no two are identical, but such a characterization
does not end our inquiry since the inability to obtain a
particular film does not of itself show that "nothing can
answer the justice of the case but the performance of the
contract in specie * * *." Philadelphia Ball Club v. Lajoie,
supra at 974. Here, although the parties entered into a
commercial contract whose primary purpose was one of
mutual pecuniary benefit, The 1812 maintains that
"Husbands" has a value which is so extraordinary that
the theatre's mere recovery of lost profits would be
inadequate. In so doing, it seizes upon what it describes
as a definite, though intangible, asset known as "theatre
momentum." The 1812 argues that there is intense
competition among "first-class" motion picture theatres
to create a special image which will enhance their
drawing power. If large numbers of people are attracted
to one particularly outstanding movie, plaintiff says,
they will also gain an impression of the theatre's
atmosphere, personnel, and type of clientele and will be
exposed to trailers of coming attractions so that they
will later return to the same theatre on the strength of
its image as a pleasant place where fine pictures are
shown. Plaintiff describes this combination of
circumstances as similar to good will in that it promotes
the forward movement of the theatre's business by
maintaining and increasing patronage. Each good
picture, it says, adds an increment to the momentum,
and a withholding of any increment will in some way
forever retard the growth of momentum.
Even assuming that an asset such as theatre momentum
does exist and that its value is not measurable in
monetary terms, the record here does not disclose that
plaintiff's failure to acquire "Husbands" will cause any
irreparable damage to this asset. Although, as previously
stated, all motion pictures are somewhat "unique,"
certainly some pictures are fungible with respect to their
effect upon theatre momentum.
3 
 The injury
contemplated by the denial of a preliminary injunction
must be actual and of serious consequence, not merely
theoretical. We find that The 1812 has failed to
demonstrate that "Husbands" will have any effect upon
its momentum different from that of other available
motion pictures of the same type.
4
Thus, even if a breach of contract is ultimately found,
the only cognizable injury which The 1812 has
established that it may sustain is a loss of income — the
difference between the income which could have been
earned by showing "Husbands" as contracted for and
that actually earned during the same period. This is
capable of measurement and can adequately be remedied
by monetary damages if The 1812 succeeds on the
merits. D.W.H. Corp. v. Twentieth Century-Fox Film
Corp., 182 F.Supp. 912, 913 (E.D.Pa.1960). In addition,
we see nothing to prevent The 1812 from successfully
rebidding for "Husbands"
5 
[440 F.2d 765]
 and, if
eventually successful in proving a breach of contract,
recovering appropriate damages.
Because there is no evidence that plaintiff will be
irreparably injured pendente lite by the denial of
interlocutory relief, we find that the district court
abused its discretion in preliminarily enjoining
Columbia's resolicitation of bids.
The order of the district court will be reversed.