The Court holds that the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment bars the States from asserting
jurisdiction over the defendants in these two cases. In
each case the Court so decides because it fails to find the
"minimum contacts" that have been required since
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310,
316 (1945). Because I believe that the Court reads
International Shoe and its progeny too narrowly, and
because I believe that the standards enunciated by those
cases may already be obsolete as constitutional
boundaries, I dissent.
I
The Court's opinions focus tightly on the existence of
contacts between the forum and the defendant. In so
doing, they accord too little weight to the strength of the
forum State's interest in the case and fail to explore
whether there [444 U.S. 300] would be any actual
inconvenience to the defendant. The essential inquiry in
locating the constitutional limits on state-court
jurisdiction over absent defendants is whether the
particular exercise of jurisdiction offends "`traditional
notions of fair play and substantial justice.'"
International Shoe, supra, at 316, quoting Milliken v.
Meyer, 311 U.S. 457, 463 (1940). The clear focus in
International Shoe was on fairness and reasonableness.
Kulko v. California Superior Court, 436 U.S. 84, 92
(1978). The Court specifically declined to establish a
mechanical test based on the quantum of contacts
between a State and the defendant:
"Whether due process is satisfied must depend rather upon the
quality and nature of the activity in relation to the fair and orderly
administration of the laws which it was the purpose of the due
process clause to insure. That clause does not contemplate that a
state may make binding a judgment in personam against an
individual or corporate defendant with which the state has no
contacts, ties, or relations." 326 U. S., at 319 (emphasis added).
The existence of contacts, so long as there were some,
was merely one way of giving content to the
determination of fairness and reasonableness.
Surely International Shoe contemplated that the
significance of the contacts necessary to support
jurisdiction would diminish if some other consideration
helped establish that jurisdiction would be fair and
reasonable. The interests of the State and other parties
in proceeding with the case in a particular forum are
such considerations. McGee v. International Life Ins.
Co., 355 U.S. 220, 223 (1957), for instance, accorded
great importance to a State's "manifest interest in
providing effective means of redress" for its citizens. See
also Kulko v. California Superior Court, supra, at 92;
Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U.S. 186, 208 (1977); Mullane v.
Central Hanover Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306, 313 (1950).
Another consideration is the actual burden a defendant
[444 U.S. 301] must bear in defending the suit in the
forum. McGee, supra. Because lesser burdens reduce the
unfairness to the defendant, jurisdiction may be justified
despite less significant contacts. The burden, of course,
must be of constitutional dimension. Due process limits
on jurisdiction do not protect a defendant from all
inconvenience of travel, McGee, supra, at 224, and it
would not be sensible to make the constitutional rule
turn solely on the number of miles the defendant must
travel to the courtroom.1 Instead, the constitutionally
significant "burden" to be analyzed relates to the
mobility of the defendant's defense. For instance, if
having to travel to a foreign forum would hamper the
defense because witnesses or evidence or the defendant
himself were immobile, or if there were a
disproportionately large number of witnesses or amount
of evidence that would have to be transported at the
defendant's expense, or if being away from home for the
duration of the trial would work some special hardship
on the defendant, then the Constitution would require
special consideration for the defendant's interests.
That considerations other than contacts between the
forum and the defendant are relevant necessarily means
that the Constitution does not require that trial be held
in the State which has the "best contacts" with the
defendant. See Shaffer v. Heitner, supra, at 228
(BRENNAN, J., dissenting). The defendant has no
constitutional entitlement to the best forum or, for that
matter, to any particular forum. Under even the most
restrictive view of International Shoe, several States
could have jurisdiction over a particular cause of action.
We need only determine whether the forum States in
these cases satisfy the constitutional minimum.2
[444 U.S. 302] II
In each of these cases, I would find that the forum State
has an interest in permitting the litigation to go
forward, the litigation is connected to the forum, the
defendant is linked to the forum, and the burden of
defending is not unreasonable. Accordingly, I would
hold that it is neither unfair nor unreasonable to require
these defendants to defend in the forum State.
A
In No. 78-952, a number of considerations suggest that
Minnesota is an interested and convenient forum. The
action was filed by a bona fide resident of the forum.3
Consequently, Minnesota's interests are similar to, even
if lesser than, the interests of California in McGee,
supra, "in providing a forum for its residents and in
regulating the activities of insurance companies" doing
business in the State.4 Post, at 332. Moreover,
Minnesota has "attempted to assert [its] particularized
interest in trying such cases in its courts by . . . enacting
a special jurisdictional statute." Kulko, supra, at 98;
McGee, supra, at 221, 224. As in McGee, a resident
forced to travel to a distant State to prosecute an action
[444 U.S. 303] against someone who has injured him
could, for lack of funds, be entirely unable to bring the
cause of action. The plaintiff's residence in the State
makes the State one of a very few convenient fora for a
personal injury case (the others usually being the
defendant's home State and the State where the accident
occurred).5
In addition, the burden on the defendant is slight. As
Judge Friendly has recognized, Shaffer emphasizes the
importance of identifying the real impact of the lawsuit.
O'Connor v. Lee-Hy Paving Corp., 579 F.2d 194, 200
(CA2 1978) (upholding the constitutionality of
jurisdiction in a very similar case under New York's law
after Shaffer). Here the real impact is on the defendant's
insurer, which is concededly amenable to suit in the
forum State. The defendant is carefully protected from
financial liability because the action limits the prayer for
damages to the insurance policy's liability limit.6 The
insurer will handle the case for the defendant. The
defendant is only a nominal party who need be no more
active in the case than the cooperation clause of his
policy requires. Because of the ease of airline
transportation, he need not lose significantly more time
than if the case were at home. Consequently, if the suit
went forward [444 U.S. 304] in Minnesota, the
defendant would bear almost no burden or expense
beyond what he would face if the suit were in his home
State. The real impact on the named defendant is the
same as it is in a direct action against the insurer, which
would be constitutionally permissible. Watson v.
Employers Liability Assurance Corp., 348 U.S. 66
(1954); Minichiello v. Rosenberg, 410 F.2d 106, 109-110
(CA2 1968). The only distinction is the formal,
"analytica[l] prerequisite," post, at 331, of making the
insured a named party. Surely the mere addition of
appellant's name to the complaint does not suffice to
create a due process violation.7
Finally, even were the relevant inquiry whether there
are sufficient contacts between the forum and the
named defendant, I would find that such contacts exist.
The insurer's presence in Minnesota is an advantage to
the defendant that may well have been a consideration
in his selecting the policy he did. An insurer with offices
in many States makes it easier for the insured to make
claims or conduct other business that may become
necessary while traveling. It is simply not true that
"State Farm's decision to do business in Minnesota was
completely adventitious as far as Rush was concerned."
Post, at 328-329. By buying a State Farm policy, the
defendant availed himself of the benefits he might derive
from having an insurance agent in Minnesota who
could, among other things, facilitate a suit for appellant
against a Minnesota resident. It seems unreasonable to
read the Constitution as permitting one to take
advantage of his nationwide insurance network but not
to be burdened by it.
In sum, I would hold that appellant is not deprived of
due process by being required to submit to trial in
Minnesota, first because Minnesota has a sufficient
interest in and connection [444 U.S. 305] to this
litigation and to the real and nominal defendants, and
second because the burden on the nominal defendant is
sufficiently slight.
B
In No. 78-1078, the interest of the forum State and its
connection to the litigation is strong. The automobile
accident underlying the litigation occurred in
Oklahoma. The plaintiffs were hospitalized in
Oklahoma when they brought suit. Essential witnesses
and evidence were in Oklahoma. See Shaffer v. Heitner,
433 U. S., at 208. The State has a legitimate interest in
enforcing its laws designed to keep its highway system
safe, and the trial can proceed at least as efficiently in
Oklahoma as anywhere else.
The petitioners are not unconnected with the forum.
Although both sell automobiles within limited sales
territories, each sold the automobile which in fact was
driven to Oklahoma where it was involved in an
accident.8 It may be true, as the Court suggests, that
each sincerely intended to limit its commercial impact to
the limited territory, and that each intended to accept
the benefits and protection of the laws only of those
States within the territory. But obviously these were
unrealistic hopes that cannot be treated as an automatic
constitutional shield.9
[444 U.S. 306] An automobile simply is not a stationary
item or one designed to be used in one place. An
automobile is intended to be moved around. Someone
in the business of selling large numbers of automobiles
can hardly plead ignorance of their mobility or pretend
that the automobiles stay put after they are sold. It is not
merely that a dealer in automobiles foresees that they
will move. Ante, at 295. The dealer actually intends that
the purchasers will use the automobiles to travel to
distant States where the dealer does not directly "do
business." The sale of an automobile does purposefully
inject the vehicle into the stream of interstate commerce
so that it can travel to distant States. See Kulko, 436 U.
S., at 94; Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U.S. 235, 253 (1958).
This case is similar to Ohio v. Wyandotte Chemicals
Corp., 401 U.S. 493 (1971). There we indicated, in the
course of denying leave to file an original-jurisdiction
case, that corporations having no direct contact with
Ohio could constitutionally be brought to trial in Ohio
because they dumped pollutants into streams outside
Ohio's limits which ultimately, through the action of the
water, reached Lake Erie and affected Ohio. No
corporate acts, only their consequences, occurred in
Ohio. The stream of commerce is just as natural a force
as a stream of water, and it was equally predictable that
the cars petitioners released would reach distant States.10
The Court accepts that a State may exercise jurisdiction
over a distributor which "serves" that State "indirectly"
by "deliver[ing] its products into the stream of
commerce with the expectation that they will be
purchased by consumers in the forum State." Ante, at
297-298. It is difficult to see why the Constitution
should distinguish between a case involving [444 U.S.
307] goods which reach a distant State through a chain
of distribution and a case involving goods which reach
the same State because a consumer, using them as the
dealer knew the customer would, took them there.11 In
each case the seller purposefully injects the goods into
the stream of commerce and those goods predictably are
used in the forum State.12
Furthermore, an automobile seller derives substantial
benefits from States other than its own. A large part of
the value of automobiles is the extensive, nationwide
network of highways. Significant portions of that
network have been constructed by and are maintained
by the individual States, including Oklahoma. The
States, through their highway programs, contribute in a
very direct and important way to the value of
petitioners' businesses. Additionally, a network of other
related dealerships with their service departments
operates throughout the country under the protection of
the laws of the various States, including Oklahoma, and
enhances the value of petitioners' businesses by
facilitating their customers' traveling.
Thus, the Court errs in its conclusion, ante, at 299
(emphasis added), that "petitioners have no `contacts,
ties, or relations'" with Oklahoma. There obviously are
contacts, and, given Oklahoma's connection to the
litigation, the contacts are sufficiently significant to
make it fair and reasonable for the petitioners to submit
to Oklahoma's jurisdiction.
III
It may be that affirmance of the judgments in these cases
would approach the outer limits of International Shoe's
jurisdictional [444 U.S. 308] principle. But that principle,
with its almost exclusive focus on the rights of
defendants, may be outdated. As MR. JUSTICE
MARSHALL wrote in Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U. S., at
212: "`[T]raditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice' can be as readily offended by the perpetuation of
ancient forms that are no longer justified as by the
adoption of new procedures. . . ."
International Shoe inherited its defendant focus from
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714 (1878), and represented
the last major step this Court has taken in the long
process of liberalizing the doctrine of personal
jurisdiction. Though its flexible approach represented a
major advance, the structure of our society has changed
in many significant ways since International Shoe was
decided in 1945. Mr. Justice Black, writing for the Court
in McGee v. International Life Ins. Co., 355 U.S. 220,
222 (1957), recognized that "a trend is clearly discernible
toward expanding the permissible scope of state
jurisdiction over foreign corporations and other
nonresidents." He explained the trend as follows:
"In part this is attributable to the fundamental transformation of
our national economy over the years. Today many commercial
transactions touch two or more States and may involve parties
separated by the full continent. With this increasing nationalization
of commerce has come a great increase in the amount of business
conducted by mail across state lines. At the same time modern
transportation and communication have made it much less
burdensome for a party sued to defend himself in a State where he
engages in economic activity." Id., at 222-223.
As the Court acknowledges, ante, at 292-293, both the
nationalization of commerce and the ease of
transportation and communication have accelerated in
the generation since 1957.13 [444 U.S. 309] The model of
society on which the International Shoe Court based its
opinion is no longer accurate. Business people, no
matter how local their businesses, cannot assume that
goods remain in the business' locality. Customers and
goods can be anywhere else in the country usually in a
matter of hours and always in a matter of a very few
days.
In answering the question whether or not it is fair and
reasonable to allow a particular forum to hold a trial
binding on a particular defendant, the interests of the
forum State and other parties loom large in today's
world and surely are entitled to as much weight as are
the interests of the defendant. The "orderly
administration of the laws" provides a firm basis for
according some protection to the interests of plaintiffs
and States as well as of defendants.14 Certainly, I cannot
see how a defendant's right to due process is violated if
the defendant suffers no inconvenience. See ante, at 294.
The conclusion I draw is that constitutional concepts of
fairness no longer require the extreme concern for
defendants that was once necessary. Rather, as I wrote
in dissent from Shaffer v. Heitner, supra, at 220
(emphasis added), minimum [444 U.S. 310] contacts
must exist "among the parties, the contested transaction,
and the forum State."15 The contacts between any two
of these should not be determinate. "[W]hen a suitor
seeks to lodge a suit in a State with a substantial interest
in seeing its own law applied to the transaction in
question, we could wisely act to minimize conflicts,
confusion, and uncertainty by adopting a liberal view of
jurisdiction, unless considerations of fairness or
efficiency strongly point in the opposite direction."16
433 U. S., at 225-226. Mr. Justice Black, dissenting in
Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U. S., at 258-259, expressed
similar concerns by suggesting that a State should have
jurisdiction over a case growing out of a transaction
significantly related to that State "unless litigation there
would impose such a heavy and disproportionate
burden on a nonresident defendant that it would offend
what this Court has referred to as `traditional notions of
fair play and substantial justice.'"17 Assuming [444 U.S.
311] that a State gives a nonresident defendant adequate
notice and opportunity to defend, I do not think the Due
Process Clause is offended merely because the defendant
has to board a plane to get to the site of the trial.
The Court's opinion in No. 78-1078 suggests that the
defendant ought to be subject to a State's jurisdiction
only if he has contacts with the State "such that he
should reasonably anticipate being haled into court
there."18 Ante, at 297. There is nothing unreasonable or
unfair, however, about recognizing commercial reality.
Given the tremendous mobility of goods and people,
and the inability of businessmen to control where goods
are taken by customers (or retailers), I do not think that
the defendant should be in complete control of the
geographical stretch of his amenability to suit.
Jurisdiction is no longer premised on the notion that
nonresident defendants have somehow impliedly
consented to suit. People should understand that they
are held responsible for the consequences of their
actions and that in our society most actions have
consequences affecting many States. When an action in
fact causes injury in another State, the actor should be
prepared to answer for it there unless defending in that
State would be unfair for some reason other than that a
state boundary must be crossed.19
In effect the Court is allowing defendants to assert the
sovereign [444 U.S. 312] rights of their home States. The
expressed fear is that otherwise all limits on personal
jurisdiction would disappear. But the argument's
premise is wrong. I would not abolish limits on
jurisdiction or strip state boundaries of all significance,
see Hanson, supra, at 260 (Black, J., dissenting); I would
still require the plaintiff to demonstrate sufficient
contacts among the parties, the forum, and the litigation
to make the forum a reasonable State in which to hold
the trial.20
I would also, however, strip the defendant of an
unjustified veto power over certain very appropriate
fora—a power the defendant justifiably enjoyed long ago
when communication and travel over long distances
were slow and unpredictable and when notions of state
sovereignty were impractical and exaggerated. But I
repeat that that is not today's world. If a plaintiff can
show that his chosen forum State has a sufficient
interest in the litigation (or sufficient contacts with the
defendant), then the defendant who cannot show some
real injury to a constitutionally protected interest, see
O'Connor v. Lee-Hy Paving Corp., 579 F. 2d, at 201,
should have no constitutional excuse not to appear.21
The plaintiffs in each of these cases brought suit in a
forum with which they had significant contacts and
which had significant contacts with the litigation. I am
not convinced that the defendants would suffer any
"heavy and disproportionate burden" in defending the
suits. Accordingly, I would hold [444 U.S. 313] that the
Constitution should not shield the defendants from
appearing and defending in the plaintiffs' chosen fora.