My disagreement with the plurality is narrow. I accept
with few reservations Part II of the plurality opinion,
which sets forth the basic principles that guide us in
reviewing state choice-of-law decisions under the
Constitution. The Court should invalidate a forum
State's decision to apply its own law only when there are
no significant contacts between the State and the
litigation. This modest check on state power is
mandated by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and the Full Faith and Credit Clause of Art.
IV, ยง 1. I do not believe, however, that the plurality
adequately analyzes the policies such review must serve.
In consequence, it has found significant what appear to
me to be trivial contacts between the forum State and
the litigation.
[449 U.S. 333] I
At least since Carroll v. Lanza, 349 U.S. 408 (1955), the
Court has recognized that both the Due Process and the
Full Faith and Credit Clauses are satisfied if the forum
has such significant contacts with the litigation that it
has a legitimate state interest in applying its own law.
The significance of asserted contacts must be evaluated
in light of the constitutional policies that oversight by
this Court should serve. Two enduring policies emerge
from our cases.
First, the contacts between the forum State and the
litigation should not be so "slight and casual" that it
would be fundamentally unfair to a litigant for the
forum to apply its own State's law. Clay v. Sun Ins.
Office, Ltd., 377 U.S. 179. 182 (1964). The touchstone
here is the reasonable expectation of the parties. See
Weintraub, Due Process and Full Faith and Credit
Limitations on a State's Choice of Law, 44 Iowa L. Rev.
449, 445-457 (1959) (Weintraub). Thus, in Clay, the
insurer sold a policy to Clay "`with knowledge that he
could take his property anywhere in the world he saw fit
without losing the protection of his insurance.'" 377 U.
S., at 182. quoting Clay v. Sun Ins. Office Ltd., 363 U.S.
207, 221 (1960) (Black, J., dissenting). When the insured
moved to Florida with the knowledge of the insurer,
and a loss occurred in that State, this Court found no
unfairness in Florida's applying its own rule of decision
to permit recovery on the policy. The insurer "must
have known it might be sued there." Ibid. See also
Watson v. Employers Liability Assurance Corp., 348
U.S. 66 (1954).1
[449 U.S. 334] Second, the forum State must have a
legitimate interest in the outcome of the litigation
before it. Pacific Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n,
306 U.S. 493 (1939). The Full Faith and Credit Clause
addresses the accommodation of sovereign power
among the various States. Under limited circumstances,
it requires one State to give effect to the statutory law of
another State. Nevada v. Hall, 440 U.S. 410, 423 (1979).
To be sure, a forum State need not give effect to another
State's law if that law is in "violation of its own
legitimate public policy." Id., at 422. Nonetheless, for a
forum State to further its legitimate public policy by
applying its own law to a controversy, there must be
some connection between the facts giving rise to the
litigation and the scope of the State's lawmaking
jurisdiction.
Both the Due Process and Full Faith and Credit Clauses
ensure that the States do not "reach out beyond the
limits imposed on them by their status as coequal
sovereigns in a federal system." World-Wide
Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson, 444 U.S. 286, 292
(1980) (addressing Fourteenth Amendment limitation
on state-court jurisdiction). As the Court stated in
Pacific Ins. Co., supra: "[T]he full faith and credit clause
does not require one state to substitute for its own
statute, applicable to persons and events within it, the
conflicting statute of another state." Id., at 502
(emphasis added). The State has a legitimate interest in
applying a rule of decision to the litigation only if the
facts to which the rule will be applied have created
effects within the State, toward which the State's public
policy is directed. To assess the sufficiency of asserted
contacts between the forum and the litigation, the court
must determine if the contacts form a reasonable link
between the litigation and a state policy. In short,
examination of contacts addresses whether "the state
[449 U.S. 335] has an interest in the application of its
policy in this instance." Currie, The Constitution and
the Choice of Law: Governmental Interests and the
Judicial Function, in B. Currie, Selected Essays on the
Conflict of Laws 188, 189 (1963) (Currie). If it does, the
Constitution is satisfied.
John Hancock Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Yates, 299 U.S. 178
(1936), illustrates this principle. A life insurance policy
was executed in New York, on a New York insured with
a New York beneficiary. The insured died in New York;
his beneficiary moved to Georgia and sued to recover on
the policy. The insurance company defended on the
ground that the insured, in the application for the
policy, had made materially false statements that
rendered it void under New York law. This Court
reversed the Georgia court's application of its contrary
rule that all questions of the policy's validity must be
determined by the jury. The Court found a violation of
the Full Faith and Credit Clause, because "[i]n respect to
the accrual of the right asserted under the contract . . .
there was no occurrence, nothing done, to which the
law of Georgia could apply." Id., at 182. In other words,
the Court determined that Georgia had no legitimate
interest in applying its own law to the legal issue of
liability. Georgia's contacts with the contract of
insurance were nonexistent.2 See Home Ins. Co. v. Dick,
281 U.S. 397, 408 (1930).
In summary, the significance of the contacts between a
forum State and the litigation must be assessed in light
of [449 U.S. 336] these two important constitutional
policies.3 A contact, or a pattern of contacts, satisfies the
Constitution when it protects the litigants from being
unfairly surprised if the forum State applies its own law,
and when the application of the forum's law reasonably
can be understood to further a legitimate public policy
of the forum State.
II
Recognition of the complexity of the constitutional
inquiry requires that this Court apply these principles
with restraint. Applying these principles to the facts of
this case, I do not believe, however, that Minnesota had
sufficient contacts with the "persons and events" in this
litigation to apply its rule permitting stacking. I would
agree that no reasonable expectations of the parties were
frustrated. The risk insured by petitioner was not
geographically limited. See Clay v. Sun Ins. Office, Ltd.,
377 U. S., at 182. The close proximity of Hager City,
Wis., to Minnesota, and the fact that Hague commuted
daily to Red Wing, Minn., for many years should have
led the insurer to realize that there was a reasonable
probability that the risk would materialize in Minnesota.
Under our precedents, it is plain that Minnesota could
have applied its own law to an accident occurring within
its borders. See ante, at 318, n. 24. The fact that the
accident did not, in fact, occur in Minnesota is not
controlling because the expectations of the litigants
before the cause of [449 U.S. 337] action accrues provide
the pertinent perspective. See Weintraub 455; n. 1,
supra.
The more doubtful question in this case is whether
application of Minnesota's substantive law reasonably
furthers a legitimate state interest. The plurality
attempts to give substance to the tenuous contacts
between Minnesota and this litigation. Upon
examination, however, these contacts are either trivial
or irrelevant to the furthering of any public policy of
Minnesota.
First, the post accident residence of the plaintiffbeneficiary
is constitutionally irrelevant to the choiceof-law
question. John Hancock Mut. Life Ins. Co. v.
Yates, supra. The plurality today insists that Yates only
held that a postoccurrence move to the forum State
could not "in and of itself" confer power on the forum to
apply its own law, but did not establish that such a
change of residence was irrelevant. Ante, at 319. What
the Yates Court held, however, was that "there was no
occurrence, nothing done, to which the law of Georgia
could apply." 299 U. S., at 182 (emphasis added). Any
possible ambiguity in the Court's view of the
significance of a postoccurrence change of residence is
dispelled by Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, supra, cited by the
Yates Court, where it was held squarely that Dick's post
accident move to the forum State was "without
significance." 281 U. S., at 408.
This rule is sound. If a plaintiff could choose the
substantive rules to be applied to an action by moving to
a hospitable forum, the invitation to forum shopping
would be irresistible. Moreover, it would permit the
defendant's reasonable expectations at the time the cause
of action accrues to be frustrated, because it would
permit the choice-of-law question to turn on a
postaccrual circumstance. Finally, postaccrual residence
has nothing to do with facts to which the forum State
proposes to apply its rule; it is unrelated to the
substantive legal issues presented by the litigation.
Second, the plurality finds it significant that the insurer
does business in the forum State. Ante, at 317-318. The
State [449 U.S. 338] does have a legitimate interest in
regulating the practices of such an insurer. But this
argument proves too much. The insurer here does
business in all 50 States. The forum State has no interest
in regulating that conduct of the insurer unrelated to
property, persons, or contracts executed within the
forum State.4 See Hoopeston Canning Co. v. Cullen,
318 U.S. 313, 319 (1943). The plurality recognizes this
flaw and attempts to bolster the significance of the local
presence of the insurer by combining it with the other
factors deemed significant: the presence of the plaintiff
and the fact that the deceased worked in the forum
State. This merely restates the basic question in the case.
Third, the plurality emphasizes particularly that the
insured worked in the forum State.5 Ante, at 313-317.
The fact that the insured was a nonresident employee in
the forum [449 U.S. 339] State provides a significant
contact for the furtherance of some local policies. See, e.
g., Pacific Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306
U.S. 493 (1939) (forum State's interest in compensating
workers for employment-related injuries occurring
within the State); Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial
Accident Comm'n, 294 U.S. 532, 549 (1935) (forum
State's interest in compensating the employment-related
injuries of a worker hired in the State). The insured's
place of employment is not, however, significant in this
case. Neither the nature of the insurance policy, the
events related to the accident, nor the immediate
question of stacking coverage is in any way affected or
implicated by the insured's employment status. The
plurality's opinion is understandably vague in explaining
how trebling the benefits to be paid to the estate of a
nonresident employee furthers any substantial state
interest relating to employment. Minnesota does not
wish its workers to die in automobile accidents, but
permitting stacking will not further this interest. The
substantive issue here is solely one of compensation, and
whether the compensation provided by this policy is
increased or not will have no relation to the State's
employment policies or police power. See n. 5, supra.
Neither taken separately nor in the aggregate do the
contacts asserted by the plurality today indicate that
Minnesota's application of its substantive rule in this
case will further any legitimate state interest.6 The
plurality focuses [449 U.S. 340] only on physical contacts
vel non, and in doing so pays scant attention to the
more fundamental reasons why our precedents require
reasonable policy-related contacts in choice-of-law
cases. Therefore, I dissent.