I
In the late spring of 1975, after hearing evidence that the
petitioner, Abby Gail Lassiter, had not provided her
infant son William with proper medical care, the
District Court of Durham County, N. C., adjudicated
him a neglected child and transferred him to the custody
of the Durham County Department of Social Services,
the respondent here. A year later, Ms. Lassiter was
charged with first-degree murder, was convicted of
second-degree murder, and began a sentence of 25 to 40
years of imprisonment.
1 
 In 1978 the Department 
[452
U.S. 21]
 petitioned the court to terminate Ms. Lassiter's
parental rights because, the Department alleged, she
"has not had any contact with the child since December
of 1975" and "has willfully left the child in foster care for
more than two consecutive years without showing that
substantial progress has been made in correcting the
conditions which led to the removal of the child, or
without showing a positive response to the diligent
efforts of the Department of Social Services to
strengthen her relationship to the child, or to make and
follow through with constructive planning for the
future of the child."
Ms. Lassiter was served with the petition and with
notice that a hearing on it would be held. Although her
mother had retained counsel for her in connection with
an effort to invalidate the murder conviction, Ms.
Lassiter never mentioned the forthcoming hearing to
him (or, for that matter, to any other person except, she
said, to "someone" in the prison). At the behest of the
Department of Social Services' attorney, she was
brought from prison to the hearing, which was held
August 31, 1978. The hearing opened, apparently at the
judge's instance, with a discussion of whether Ms.
Lassiter should have more time in which to find legal
assistance. 
[452 U.S. 22]
 Since the court concluded that
she "has had ample opportunity to seek and obtain
counsel prior to the hearing of this matter, and [that]
her failure to do so is without just cause," the court did
not postpone the proceedings. Ms. Lassiter did not aver
that she was indigent, and the court did not appoint
counsel for her.
A social worker from the respondent Department was
the first witness. She testified that in 1975 the
Department "received a complaint from Duke Pediatrics
that William had not been followed in the pediatric
clinic for medical problems and that they were having
difficulty in locating Ms. Lassiter. . . ." She said that in
May 1975 a social worker had taken William to the
hospital, where doctors asked that he stay "because of
breathing difficulties [and] malnutrition and [because]
there was a great deal of scarring that indicated that he
had a severe infection that had gone untreated." The
witness further testified that, except for one
"prearranged" visit and a chance meeting on the street,
Ms. Lassiter had not seen William after he had come
into the State's custody, and that neither Ms. Lassiter
nor her mother had "made any contact with the
Department of Social Services regarding that child."
When asked whether William should be placed in his
grandmother's custody, the social worker said he should
not, since the grandmother "has indicated to me on a
number of occasions that she was not able to take
responsibility for the child" and since "I have checked
with people in the community and from Ms. Lassiter's
church who also feel that this additional responsibility
would be more than she can handle." The social worker
added that William "has not seen his grandmother since
the chance meeting in July of '76 and that was the only
time."
After the direct examination of the social worker, the
judge said:
"I notice we made extensive findings in June of '75 that you were
served with papers and called the social 
[452 U.S. 23]
 services and
told them you weren't coming; and the serious lack of medical
treatment. And, as I have said in my findings of the 16th day of June
'75, the Court finds that the grandmother, Ms. Lucille Lassiter,
mother of Abby Gail Lassiter, filed a complaint on the 8th day of
May, 1975, alleging that the daughter often left the children,
Candina, Felicia and William L. with her for days without
providing money or food while she was gone."
Ms. Lassiter conducted a cross-examination of the social
worker, who firmly reiterated her earlier testimony.
The judge explained several times, with varying degrees
of clarity, that Ms. Lassiter should only ask questions at
this stage; many of her questions were disallowed
because they were not really questions, but arguments.
Ms. Lassiter herself then testified, under the judge's
questioning, that she had properly cared for William.
Under cross-examination, she said that she had seen
William more than five or six times after he had been
taken from her custody and that, if William could not be
with her, she wanted him to be with her mother since,
"He knows us. Children know they family. . . . They
know they people, they know they family and that child
knows us anywhere. . . . I got four more other children.
Three girls and a boy and they know they little brother
when they see him."
Ms. Lassiter's mother was then called as a witness. She
denied, under the questioning of the judge, that she had
filed the complaint against Ms. Lassiter, and on cross-
examination she denied both having failed to visit
William when he was in the State's custody and having
said that she could not care for him.
The court found that Ms. Lassiter "has not contacted the
Department of Social Services about her child since
December, 1975, has not expressed any concern for his
care and welfare, and has made no efforts to plan for his
future." Because 
[452 U.S. 24]
 Ms. Lassiter thus had
"wilfully failed to maintain concern or responsibility for
the welfare of the minor," and because it was "in the best
interests of the minor," the court terminated Ms.
Lassiter's status as William's parent.
2
On appeal, Ms. Lassiter argued only that, because she
was indigent, the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment entitled her to the assistance of counsel,
and that the trial court had therefore erred in not
requiring the State to provide counsel for her. The
North Carolina Court of Appeals decided that "[w]hile
this State action does invade a protected area of
individual privacy, the invasion is not so serious or
unreasonable as to compel us to hold that appointment
of counsel for indigent parents is constitutionally
mandated." In re Lassiter, 43 N.C. App. 525, 527, 259
S.E.2d 336, 337. The Supreme Court of North Carolina
summarily denied Ms. Lassiter's application for
discretionary review, 299 N.C. 120, 262 S.E.2d 6, and we
granted certiorari to consider the petitioner's claim
under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, 449 U.S. 819.
II
For all its consequence, "due process" has never been,
and perhaps can never be, precisely defined. "[U]nlike
some legal rules," this Court has said, due process "is not
a technical conception with a fixed content unrelated to
time, place and circumstances." Cafeteria Workers v.
McElroy, 367 U.S. 886, 895. Rather, the phrase
expresses the requirement of "fundamental fairness," a
requirement whose meaning can be as opaque as its
importance is lofty. Applying the Due Process Clause is
therefore an uncertain enterprise which 
[452 U.S. 25]
must discover what "fundamental fairness" consists of in
a particular situation by first considering any relevant
precedents and then by assessing the several interests
that are at stake.
A
The pre-eminent generalization that emerges from this
Court's precedents on an indigent's right to appointed
counsel is that such a right has been recognized to exist
only where the litigant may lose his physical liberty if he
loses the litigation. Thus, when the Court overruled the
principle of Betts v. Brady, 316 U.S. 455, that counsel in
criminal trials need be appointed only where the
circumstances in a given case demand it, the Court did
so in the case of a man sentenced to prison for five
years. Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U.S. 335. And thus
Argersinger v. Hamlin, 407 U.S. 25, established that
counsel must be provided before any indigent may be
sentenced to prison, even where the crime is petty and
the prison term brief.
That it is the defendant's interest in personal freedom,
and not simply the special Sixth and Fourteenth
Amendments right to counsel in criminal cases, which
triggers the right to appointed counsel is demonstrated
by the Court's announcement in In re Gault, 387 U.S. 1,
that "the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment requires that in respect of proceedings to
determine delinquency which may result in
commitment to an institution in which the juvenile's
freedom is curtailed, " the juvenile has a right to
appointed counsel even though those proceedings may
be styled "civil" and not "criminal." Id., at 41 (emphasis
added). Similarly, four of the five Justices who reached
the merits in Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480, concluded
that an indigent prisoner is entitled to appointed
counsel before being involuntarily transferred for
treatment to a state mental hospital. The fifth Justice
differed from the other four only in declining to exclude
the "possibility that the required assistance 
[452 U.S. 26]
may be rendered by competent laymen in some cases."
Id., at 500 (separate opinion of POWELL, J.).
Significantly, as a litigant's interest in personal liberty
diminishes, so does his right to appointed counsel. In
Gagnon v. Scarpelli, 411 U.S. 778, the Court gauged the
due process rights of a previously sentenced probationer
at a probation-revocation hearing. In Morrissey v.
Brewer, 408 U.S. 471, 480, which involved an analogous
hearing to revoke parole, the Court had said:
"Revocation deprives an individual, not of the absolute
liberty to which every citizen is entitled, but only of the
conditional liberty properly dependent on observance of
special parole restrictions." Relying on that discussion,
the Court in Scarpelli declined to hold that indigent
probationers have, per se, a right to counsel at
revocation hearings, and instead left the decision
whether counsel should be appointed to be made on a
case-by-case basis.
Finally, the Court has refused to extend the right to
appointed counsel to include prosecutions which,
though criminal, do not result in the defendant's loss of
personal liberty. The Court in Scott v. Illinois, 440 U.S.
367, for instance, interpreted the "central premise of
Argersinger" to be "that actual imprisonment is a
penalty different in kind from fines or the mere threat of
imprisonment," and the Court endorsed that premise as
"eminently sound and warrant[ing] adoption of actual
imprisonment as the line defining the constitutional
right to appointment of counsel." Id., at 373. The Court
thus held "that the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments
to the United States Constitution require only that no
indigent criminal defendant be sentenced to a term of
imprisonment unless the State has afforded him the
right to assistance of appointed counsel in his defense."
Id., at 373-374.
In sum, the Court's precedents speak with one voice
about what "fundamental fairness" has meant when the
Court has considered the right to appointed counsel,
and we thus draw from them the presumption that an
indigent litigant has a 
[452 U.S. 27]
 right to appointed
counsel only when, if he loses, he may be deprived of his
physical liberty. It is against this presumption that all the
other elements in the due process decision must be
measured.
B
The case of Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335,
propounds three elements to be evaluated in deciding
what due process requires, viz., the private interests at
stake, the government's interest, and the risk that the
procedures used will lead to erroneous decisions. We
must balance these elements against each other, and
then set their net weight in the scales against the
presumption that there is a right to appointed counsel
only where the indigent, if he is unsuccessful, may lose
his personal freedom.
This Court's decisions have by now made plain beyond
the need for multiple citation that a parent's desire for
and right to "the companionship, care, custody, and
management of his or her children" is an important
interest that "undeniably warrants deference and, absent
a powerful countervailing interest, protection." Stanley
v. Illinois, 405 U.S. 645, 651. Here the State has sought
not simply to infringe upon that interest, but to end it. If
the State prevails, it will have worked a unique kind of
deprivation. Cf. May v. Anderson, 345 U.S. 528, 533;
Armstrong v. Manzo, 380 U.S. 545. A parent's interest
in the accuracy and justice of the decision to terminate
his or her parental status is, therefore, a commanding
one.
3
Since the State has an urgent interest in the welfare of
the child, it shares the parent's interest in an accurate
and just decision. For this reason, the State may share
the indigent parent's interest in the availability of
appointed counsel. 
[452 U.S. 28]
 If, as our adversary
system presupposes, accurate and just results are most
likely to be obtained through the equal contest of
opposed interests, the State's interest in the child's
welfare may perhaps best be served by a hearing in
which both the parent and the State acting for the child
are represented by counsel, without whom the contest
of interests may become unwholesomely unequal. North
Carolina itself acknowledges as much by providing that
where a parent files a written answer to a termination
petition, the State must supply a lawyer to represent the
child. N. C. Gen. Stat. 
§
 7A-289.29 (Supp. 1979).
The State's interests, however, clearly diverge from the
parent's insofar as the State wishes the termination
decision to be made as economically as possible and thus
wants to avoid both the expense of appointed counsel
and the cost of the lengthened proceedings his presence
may cause. But though the State's pecuniary interest is
legitimate, it is hardly significant enough to overcome
private interests as important as those here, particularly
in light of the concession in the respondent's brief that
the "potential costs of appointed counsel in termination
proceedings . . . is [sic] admittedly de minimis compared
to the costs in all criminal actions."
Finally, consideration must be given to the risk that a
parent will be erroneously deprived of his or her child
because the parent is not represented by counsel. North
Carolina law now seeks to assure accurate decisions by
establishing the following procedures: A petition to
terminate parental rights may be filed only by a parent
seeking the termination of the other parent's rights, by a
county department of social services or licensed child-
placing agency with custody of the child, or by a person
with whom the child has lived continuously for the two
years preceding the petition. 
§
 7A-289.24. A petition
must describe facts sufficient to warrant a finding that
one of the grounds for termination exists, 
§
 7A-289.25
(6), and the parent must be notified of the petition and
given 30 days in which to file a written answer to it,
[452 U.S. 29]
§
 7A-289.27. If that answer denies a
material allegation, the court must, as has been noted,
appoint a lawyer as the child's guardian ad litem and
must conduct a special hearing to resolve the issues
raised by the petition and the answer. 
§
 7A-289.29. If
the parent files no answer, "the court shall issue an order
terminating all parental and custodial rights . . . ;
provided the court shall order a hearing on the petition
and may examine the petitioner or others on the facts
alleged in the petition." 
§
 7A-289.28. Findings of fact are
made by a court sitting without a jury and must "be
based on clear, cogent, and convincing evidence." 
§
 7A-
289.30. Any party may appeal who gives notice of appeal
within 10 days after the hearing. 
§
 7A-289.34.
4
The respondent argues that the subject of a termination
hearing—the parent's relationship with her child—far
from being abstruse, technical, or unfamiliar, is one as
to which the parent must be uniquely well informed and
to which the parent must have given prolonged thought.
The respondent also contends that a termination
hearing is not likely to produce difficult points of
evidentiary law, or even of substantive law, since the
evidentiary problems peculiar to criminal trials are not
present and since the standards for termination are not
complicated. In fact, the respondent reports, the North
Carolina Departments of Social Services are themselves
sometimes represented at termination hearings by social
workers instead of by lawyers.
5
[452 U.S. 30]
 Yet the ultimate issues with which a
termination hearing deals are not always simple,
however commonplace they may be. Expert medical and
psychiatric testimony, which few parents are equipped
to understand and fewer still to confute, is sometimes
presented. The parents are likely to be people with little
education, who have had uncommon difficulty in
dealing with life, and who are, at the hearing, thrust into
a distressing and disorienting situation. That these
factors may combine to overwhelm an uncounseled
parent is evident from the findings some courts have
made. See, e. g., Davis v. Page, 442 F.Supp. 258, 261 (SD
Fla. 1977); State v. Jamison, 251 Or. 114, 117-118, 444
P.2d 15, 17 (1968). Thus, courts have generally held that
the State must appoint counsel for indigent parents at
termination proceedings. State ex rel. Heller v. Miller,
61 Ohio St.2d 6, 399 N.E.2d 66 (1980); Department of
Public Welfare v. J. K. B., 379 Mass. 1, 393 N.E.2d 406
(1979); In re Chad S., 580 P.2d 983 (Okla. 1978); In re
Myricks, 85 Wn.2d 252, 533 P.2d 841 (1975); Crist v.
Division of Youth and Family Services, 128 N.J.Super.
102, 320 A.2d 203 (1974); Danforth v. Maine Dept. of
Health and Welfare, 303 A.2d 794 (Me. 1973); In re
Friesz, 190 Neb. 347, 208 N.W.2d 259 (1973).
6 
 The
respondent is able to point to no presently authoritative
case, except for the North Carolina 
[452 U.S. 31]
judgment now before us, holding that an indigent
parent has no due process right to appointed counsel in
termination proceedings.
C
The dispositive question, which must now be addressed,
is whether the three Eldridge factors, when weighed
against the presumption that there is no right to
appointed counsel in the absence of at least a potential
deprivation of physical liberty, suffice to rebut that
presumption and thus to lead to the conclusion that the
Due Process Clause requires the appointment of counsel
when a State seeks to terminate an indigent's parental
status. To summarize the above discussion of the
Eldridge factors: the parent's interest is an extremely
important one (and may be supplemented by the
dangers of criminal liability inherent in some
termination proceedings); the State shares with the
parent an interest in a correct decision, has a relatively
weak pecuniary interest, and, in some but not all cases,
has a possibly stronger interest in informal procedures;
and the complexity of the proceeding and the incapacity
of the uncounseled parent could be, but would not
always be, great enough to make the risk of an
erroneous deprivation of the parent's rights
insupportably high.
If, in a given case, the parent's interests were at their
strongest, the State's interests were at their weakest, and
the risks of error were at their peak, it could not be said
that the Eldridge factors did not overcome the
presumption against the right to appointed counsel, and
that due process did not therefore require the
appointment of counsel. But since the Eldridge factors
will not always be so distributed, and since "due process
is not so rigid as to require that the significant interests
in informality, flexibility and economy must always be
sacrificed," Gagnon v. Scarpelli, 411 U. S., at 788,
neither can we say that the Constitution requires the
appointment of counsel in every parental termination
proceeding. We therefore adopt the standard found
appropriate in Gagnon v. Scarpelli, 
[452 U.S. 32]
 and
leave the decision whether due process calls for the
appointment of counsel for indigent parents in
termination proceedings to be answered in the first
instance by the trial court, subject, of course, to appellate
review. See, e. g., Wood v. Georgia, 450 U.S. 261.
III
Here, as in Scarpelli, "[i]t is neither possible nor prudent
to attempt to formulate a precise and detailed set of
guidelines to be followed in determining when the
providing of counsel is necessary to meet the applicable
due process requirements," since here, as in that case,
"[t]he facts and circumstances . . . are susceptible of
almost infinite variation. . . ." 411 U. S., at 790.
Nevertheless, because child-custody litigation must be
concluded as rapidly as is consistent with fairness,
7 
 we
decide today whether the trial judge denied Ms. Lassiter
due process of law when he did not appoint counsel for
her.
The respondent represents that the petition to
terminate Ms. Lassiter's parental rights contained no
allegations of neglect or abuse upon which criminal
charges could be based, and hence Ms. Lassiter could not
well have argued that she required counsel for that
reason. The Department of Social Services was
represented at the hearing by counsel, but no expert
witnesses testified, and the case presented no specially
troublesome points of law, either procedural or
substantive. While hearsay evidence was no doubt
admitted, and while Ms. Lassiter no doubt left
incomplete her defense that the Department had not
adequately assisted her in rekindling her interest in her
son, the weight of the evidence that she had few sparks
of such an interest was sufficiently great that the 
[452
U.S. 33]
 presence of counsel for Ms. Lassiter could not
have made a determinative difference. True, a lawyer
might have done more with the argument that William
should live with Ms. Lassiter's mother—but that
argument was quite explicity made by both Lassiters,
and the evidence that the elder Ms. Lassiter had said she
could not handle another child, that the social worker's
investigation had led to a similar conclusion, and that
the grandmother had displayed scant interest in the
child once he had been removed from her daughter's
custody was, though controverted, sufficiently
substantial that the absence of counsel's guidance on this
point did not render the proceedings fundamentally
unfair.
8 
 Finally, a court deciding whether due process
requires the appointment of counsel need not ignore a
parent's plain demonstration that she is not interested in
attending a hearing. Here, the trial court had previously
found that Ms. Lassiter had expressly declined to appear
at the 1975 child custody hearing, Ms. Lassiter had not
even bothered to speak to her retained lawyer after
being notified of the termination hearing, and the court
specifically found that Ms. Lassiter's failure to make an
effort to contest the termination proceeding was
without cause. In view of all these circumstances, we
hold that the trial court did not err in failing to appoint
counsel for Ms. Lassiter.
IV
In its Fourteenth Amendment, our Constitution
imposes on the States the standards necessary to ensure
that judicial proceedings are fundamentally fair. A wise
public policy, however, may require that higher
standards be adopted than those minimally tolerable
under the Constitution. Informed opinion has clearly
come to hold that an indigent parent is 
[452 U.S. 34]
entitled to the assistance of appointed counsel not only
in parental termination proceedings, but in dependency
and neglect proceedings as well. IJA-ABA Standards for
Juvenile Justice, Counsel for Private Parties 2.3 (b)
(1980); Uniform Juvenile Court Act 
§
 26 (a), 9A U. L. A.
35 (1979); National Council on Crime and Delinquency,
Model Rules for Juvenile Courts, Rule 39 (1969); U. S.
Dept. of HEW, Children's Bureau, Legislative Guide for
Drafting Family and Juvenile Court Acts 
§
 25 (b) (1969);
U. S. Dept. of HEW, Children's Bureau, Legislative
Guides for the Termination of Parental Rights and
Responsibilities and the Adoption of Children, Pt. II, 
§
 8
(1961); National Council on Crime and Delinquency,
Standard Juvenile Court Act 
§
 19 (1959). Most
significantly, 33 States and the District of Columbia
provide statutorily for the appointment of counsel in
termination cases. The Court's opinion today in no way
implies that the standards increasingly urged by
informed public opinion and now widely followed by
the States are other than enlightened and wise.
For the reasons stated in this opinion, the judgment is
affirmed.
It is so ordered.