Rule 37(b), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, provides
that a district court may impose sanctions for failure to
comply with discovery orders. Included among the
available sanctions is:
"An order that the matters regarding which the order was made or
any other designated facts shall be taken to be established for the
purposes of the action in accordance with the claim of the party
obtaining the order." Rule 37(b)(2)(A).
The question presented by this case is whether this Rule
is applicable to facts that form the basis for personal
jurisdiction over a defendant. May a district court, as a
sanction for failure to comply with a discovery order
directed at establishing jurisdictional facts, proceed on
the basis that personal jurisdiction over the recalcitrant
party has been established? [456 U.S. 696] Petitioners
urge that such an application of the Rule would violate
due process: If a court does not have jurisdiction over a
party, then it may not create that jurisdiction by judicial
fiat.1 They contend also that until a court has
jurisdiction over a party, that party need not comply
with orders of the court; failure to comply, therefore,
cannot provide the ground for a sanction. In our view,
petitioners are attempting to create a logical conundrum
out of a fairly straightforward matter.
I
Respondent Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee (CBG)
is a Delaware corporation, 49% of which is owned by
the Republic of Guinea and 51% is owned by Halco
(Mining) Inc. CBG's principal place of business is in the
Republic of Guinea, where it operates bauxite mines and
processing facilities. Halco, which operates in
Pennsylvania, has contracted to perform certain
administrative services for CBG. These include the
procurement of insurance.
In 1973, Halco instructed an insurance broker, Marsh &
McLennan, to obtain $20 million worth of business
interruption insurance to cover CBG's operations in
Guinea. The first half of this coverage was provided by
the Insurance Company of North America (INA). The
second half, or what is referred to as the "excess"
insurance, was provided by a group of 21 foreign
insurance companies,2 14 of which are petitioners in
this action (the excess insurers).3
[456 U.S. 697] Marsh & McLennan requested Bland
Payne to obtain the excess insurance in the London
insurance market. Pursuant to normal business practice
"[i]n late January and in February, 1974, Bland Payne presented to
the excess insurer [petitioners] a placing slip in the amount of
$10,000,000, in excess of the first $10,000,000. [Petitioners]
initialed said placing slip, effective February 12, 1974, indicating the
part of said $10,000,000 each was willing to insure."4 Finding 27 of
the District Court, 2 App. 347a.
Once the offering was fully subscribed, Bland Payne
issued a cover note indicating the amount of the
coverage and specifying the percentage of the coverage
that each excess insurer had agreed to insure. No
separate policy was issued; the excess insurers adopted
the INA policy "as far as applicable."
Sometime after February 12, CBG allegedly experienced
mechanical problems in its Guinea operation, resulting
in a business interruption loss in excess of $10 million.
Contending that the loss was covered under its policies,
CBG brought suit when the insurers refused to
indemnify CBG for the loss. Whatever the mechanical
problems experienced by CBG, they were perhaps
minor compared to the legal difficulties encountered in
the courts.
[456 U.S. 698] In December 1975, CBG filed a two-count
suit in the Western District of Pennsylvania, asserting
jurisdiction based on diversity of citizenship. The first
count was against INA; the second against the excess
insurers. INA did not challenge personal or subjectmatter
jurisdiction of the District Court. The answer of
the excess insurers, however, raised a number of
defenses, including lack of in personam jurisdiction.
Subsequently, this alleged lack of personal jurisdiction
became the basis of a motion for summary judgment
filed by the excess insurers.5 The issue in this case
requires an account of respondent's attempt to use
discovery in order to demonstrate the court's personal
jurisdiction over the excess insurers.
Respondent's first discovery request — asking for
"[c]opies of all business interruption insurance policies
issued by Defendant during the period from January 1,
1972 to December 31, 1975" — was served on each
defendant in August 1976. In January 1977, the excess
insurers objected, on grounds of burdensomeness, to
producing such policies. Several months later,
respondent filed a motion to compel petitioners to
produce the requested documents. In June 1978, the
court orally overruled petitioners' objections. This was
followed by a second discovery request in which
respondent narrowed the files it was seeking to policies
which "were delivered in . . . Pennsylvania . . . or
covered a risk located in. . . Pennsylvania." Petitioners
now objected that these documents were not in their
custody or control; rather, they were kept by the brokers
in London. The court ordered petitioners to request the
information from the brokers, limiting the request to
policies covering the period from 1971 to date. That was
in July 1978; petitioners were given 90 days to produce
the information. On November 8, petitioners [456 U.S.
699] were given an additional 30 days to complete
discovery. On November 24, petitioners filed an
affidavit offering to make their records, allegedly some 4
million files, available at their offices in London for
inspection by respondent. Respondent countered with a
motion to compel production of the previously
requested documents. On December 21, 1978, the court,
noting that no conscientious effort had yet been made to
produce the requested information and that no
objection had been entered to the discovery order in
July, gave petitioners 60 more days to produce the
requested information. The District Judge also issued
the following warning:
"[I]f you don't get it to him in 60 days, I am going to enter an order
saying that because you failed to give the information as requested,
that I am going to assume, under Rule of Civil Procedure 37(b),
subsection 2(A), that there is jurisdiction." 1 App. 115a.
A few moments later he restated the warning as follows:
"I will assume that jurisdiction is here with this court
unless you produce statistics and other information in
that regard that would indicate otherwise." Id., at 116a.
On April 19, 1979, the court, after concluding that the
requested material had not been produced, imposed the
threatened sanction, finding that "for the purpose of this
litigation the Excess Insurers are subject to the in
personam jurisdiction of this Court due to their business
contacts with Pennsylvania." Id., at 201a. Independently
of the sanction, the District Court found two other
grounds for holding that it had personal jurisdiction
over petitioners. First, on the record established, it
found that petitioners had sufficient business contacts
with Pennsylvania to fall within the Pennsylvania longarm
statute. Second, in adopting the terms of the INA
contract with CBG — a Pennsylvania insurance contract
— the excess insurers implicitly agreed to submit to the
jurisdiction of the court.6
[456 U.S. 700] Except with respect to three excess
insurers, the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
affirmed the jurisdictional holding, relying entirely upon
the validity of the sanction.7 Compagnie des Bauxites de
Guinea v. Insurance Co. of North America, 651 F.2d 877
(1981). That court specifically found that the discovery
orders of the District Court did not constitute an abuse
of discretion and that imposition of the sanction fell
within the limits of trial court discretion under Rule
37(b):
"The purpose and scope of the ordered discovery were directly
related to the issue of jurisdiction and the rule 37 sanction was
tailored to establish as admitted those jurisdictional facts that,
because of the insurers' failure to comply with discovery orders,
CBG was unable to adduce through discovery." 651 F. 2d, at 885.
Furthermore, it held that the sanction did not violate
petitioners' due process rights, because it was no
broader than "reasonably necessary" under the
circumstances.
Because the decision below directly conflicts with the
decision of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in
Familia de Boom v. Arosa Mercantil, S.A., 629 F.2d
1134 (1980), we granted certiorari.8 454 U.S. 963 (1981).
[456 U.S. 701] II
In McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U.S. 90 (1917), another case
involving an alleged lack of personal jurisdiction, Justice
Holmes wrote for the Court, "great caution should be
used not to let fiction deny the fair play that can be
secured only by a pretty close adhesion to fact." Id., at
91. Petitioners' basic submission is that to apply Rule
37(b)(2) to jurisdictional facts is to allow fiction to get
the better of fact and that it is impermissible to use a
fiction to establish judicial power, where, as a matter of
fact, it does not exist. In our view, this represents a
fundamental misunderstanding of the nature of personal
jurisdiction.
The validity of an order of a federal court depends upon
that court's having jurisdiction over both the subject
matter and the parties. Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305 U.S. 165,
171-172 (1938); Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457,
465 (1874). The concepts of subject-matter and personal
jurisdiction, however, serve different purposes, and
these different purposes affect the legal character of the
two requirements. Petitioners fail to recognize the
distinction between the two concepts — speaking
instead in general terms of "jurisdiction" — although
their argument's strength comes from conceiving of
jurisdiction only as subject-matter jurisdiction.
Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction. The
character of the controversies over which federal
judicial authority may extend are delineated in Art. III, §
2, cl. 1. Jurisdiction of the lower federal courts is further
limited to those subjects encompassed within a statutory
grant of jurisdiction. Again, this reflects the
constitutional source of federal judicial power: Apart
from this Court, that power only [456 U.S. 702] exists
"in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time
to time ordain and establish." Art. III, § 1.
Subject-matter jurisdiction, then, is an Art. III as well as
a statutory requirement; it functions as a restriction on
federal power, and contributes to the characterization of
the federal sovereign. Certain legal consequences
directly follow from this. For example, no action of the
parties can confer subject-matter jurisdiction upon a
federal court. Thus, the consent of the parties is
irrelevant, California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972),
principles of estoppel do not apply, American Fire &
Casualty Co. v. Finn, 341 U.S. 6, 17-18 (1951), and a
party does not waive the requirement by failing to
challenge jurisdiction early in the proceedings. Similarly,
a court, including an appellate court, will raise lack of
subject-matter jurisdiction on its own motion. "[T]he
rule, springing from the nature and limits of the judicial
power of the United States is inflexible and without
exception, which requires this court, of its own motion,
to deny its jurisdiction, and, in the exercise of its
appellate power, that of all other courts of the United
States, in all cases where such jurisdiction does not
affirmatively appear in the record." Mansfield, C. & L.
M. R. Co. v. Swan, 111 U.S. 379, 382 (1884).9
None of this is true with respect to personal jurisdiction.
The requirement that a court have personal jurisdiction
flows not from Art. III, but from the Due Process
Clause. The personal jurisdiction requirement
recognizes and protects an individual liberty interest. It
represents a restriction on judicial power not as a matter
of sovereignty, but as a matter of individual liberty.10
Thus, the test for personal jurisdiction [456 U.S. 703]
requires that "the maintenance of the suit . . . not offend
`traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.' "
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310,
316 (1945), quoting Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U.S. 457,
463 (1940).
Because the requirement of personal jurisdiction
represents first of all an individual right, it can, like
other such rights, be waived. In McDonald v. Mabee,
supra, the Court indicated that regardless of the power
of the State to serve process, an individual may submit
to the jurisdiction of the court by appearance. A variety
of legal arrangements have been taken to represent
express or implied consent to the personal jurisdiction
of the court. In National Equipment Rental, Ltd. v.
Szukhent, 375 U.S. 311, 316 (1964), we [456 U.S. 704]
stated that "parties to a contract may agree in advance to
submit to the jurisdiction of a given court," and in
Petrowski v. Hawkeye-Security Co., 350 U.S. 495
(1956), the Court upheld the personal jurisdiction of a
District Court on the basis of a stipulation entered into
by the defendant. In addition, lower federal courts have
found such consent implicit in agreements to arbitrate.
See Victory Transport Inc. v. Comisaria General de
Abastecimientos y Transportes, 336 F.2d 354 (CA2
1964); 2 J. Moore & J. Lucas, Moore's Federal Practice ¶
4.02[3], n. 22 (1982) and cases listed there.
Furthermore, the Court has upheld state procedures
which find constructive consent to the personal
jurisdiction of the state court in the voluntary use of
certain state procedures. See Adam v. Saenger, 303 U.S.
59, 67-68 (1938) ("There is nothing in the Fourteenth
Amendment to prevent a state from adopting a
procedure by which a judgment in personam may be
rendered in a cross-action against a plaintiff in its courts
. . . . It is the price which the state may exact as the
condition of opening its courts to the plaintiff");
Chicago Life Ins. Co. v. Cherry, 244 U.S. 25, 29-30
(1917) ("[W]hat acts of the defendant shall be deemed a
submission to [a court's] power is a matter upon which
States may differ"). Finally, unlike subject-matter
jurisdiction, which even an appellate court may review
sua sponte, under Rule 12(h), Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure, "[a] defense of lack of jurisdiction over the
person . . . is waived" if not timely raised in the answer
or a responsive pleading.
In sum, the requirement of personal jurisdiction may be
intentionally waived, or for various reasons a defendant
may be estopped from raising the issue. These
characteristics portray it for what it is — a legal right
protecting the individual. The plaintiff's demonstration
of certain historical facts may make clear to the court
that it has personal jurisdiction over the defendant as a
matter of law — i. e., certain factual showings will have
legal consequences — but this is not the only way in
which the personal jurisdiction of the court may arise.
The actions of the defendant may amount to a legal
submission [456 U.S. 705] to the jurisdiction of the
court, whether voluntary or not.
The expression of legal rights is often subject to certain
procedural rules: The failure to follow those rules may
well result in a curtailment of the rights. Thus, the
failure to enter a timely objection to personal
jurisdiction constitutes, under Rule 12(h)(1), a waiver of
the objection. A sanction under Rule 37(b)(2)(A)
consisting of a finding of personal jurisdiction has
precisely the same effect. As a general proposition, the
Rule 37 sanction applied to a finding of personal
jurisdiction creates no more of a due process problem
than the Rule 12 waiver. Although "a court cannot
conclude all persons interested by its mere assertion of
its own power," Chicago Life Ins. Co. v. Cherry, supra,
at 29, not all rules that establish legal consequences to a
party's own behavior are "mere assertions" of power.
Rule 37(b)(2)(A) itself embodies the standard established
in Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U.S. 322
(1909), for the due process limits on such rules.11 There
the Court held that it did not violate due process for a
state court to strike the answer and render a default
judgment against a defendant who failed to comply with
a pretrial discovery order. Such a rule was permissible as
an expression of "the undoubted right of the lawmaking
power to create a presumption of fact as to the bad faith
and untruth of an answer begotten from the suppression
or failure to produce the proof ordered . . . . [T]he
preservation of due process was secured by the
presumption that the refusal to produce evidence
material to the administration of due process was but an
admission of the want of merit in the asserted defense."
Id., at 350-351.
[456 U.S. 706] The situation in Hammond was
specifically distinguished from that in Hovey v. Elliott,
167 U.S. 409 (1897), in which the Court held that it did
violate due process for a court to take similar action as
"punishment" for failure to obey an order to pay into the
registry of the court a certain sum of money. Due
process is violated only if the behavior of the defendant
will not support the Hammond Packing presumption. A
proper application of Rule 37(b)(2) will, as a matter of
law, support such a presumption. See Societe
Internationale v. Rogers, 357 U.S. 197, 209-213 (1958).
If there is no abuse of discretion in the application of the
Rule 37 sanction, as we find to be the case here (see Part
III), then the sanction is nothing more than the
invocation of a legal presumption, or what is the same
thing, the finding of a constructive waiver.
Petitioners argue that a sanction consisting of a finding
of personal jurisdiction differs from all other instances
in which a sanction is imposed, including the default
judgment in Hammond Packing, because a party need
not obey the orders of a court until it is established that
the court has personal jurisdiction over that party. If
there is no obligation to obey a judicial order, a sanction
cannot be applied for the failure to comply. Until the
court has established personal jurisdiction, moreover,
any assertion of judicial power over the party violates
due process.
This argument again assumes that there is something
unique about the requirement of personal jurisdiction,
which prevents it from being established or waived like
other rights. A defendant is always free to ignore the
judicial proceedings, risk a default judgment, and then
challenge that judgment on jurisdictional grounds in a
collateral proceedings. See Baldwin v. Traveling Men's
Assn., 283 U.S. 522, 525 (1931). By submitting to the
jurisdiction of the court for the limited purpose of
challenging jurisdiction, the defendant agrees to abide
by that court's determination on the issue of
jurisdiction: That decision will be res judicata on that
issue in any further proceedings. Id., at 524; American
Surety Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U.S. 156, 166 (1932).[456
U.S. 707] As demonstrated above, the manner in which
the court determines whether it has personal
jurisdiction may include a variety of legal rules and
presumptions, as well as straightforward factfinding. A
particular rule may offend the due process standard of
Hammond Packing, but the mere use of procedural rules
does not in itself violate the defendant's due process
rights.
III
Even if Rule 37(b)(2) may be applied to support a
finding of personal jurisdiction, the question remains as
to whether it was properly applied under the
circumstances of this case. Because the District Court's
decision to invoke the sanction was accompanied by a
detailed explanation of the reasons for that order and
because that decision was upheld as a proper exercise of
the District Court's discretion by the Court of Appeals,
this issue need not detain us for long. What was said in
National Hockey League v. Metropolitan Hockey Club,
Inc., 427 U.S. 639, 642 (1976), is fully applicable here:
"The question, of course, is not whether this Court, or
whether the Court of Appeals, would as an original
matter have [applied the sanction]; it is whether the
District Court abused its discretion in so doing"
(citations omitted). For the reasons that follow, we hold
that it did not.
Rule 37(b)(2) contains two standards — one general and
one specific — that limit a district court's discretion.
First, any sanction must be "just"; second, the sanction
must be specifically related to the particular "claim"
which was at issue in the order to provide discovery.
While the latter requirement reflects the rule of
Hammond Packing, supra, the former represents the
general due process restrictions on the court's
discretion.
In holding that the sanction in this case was "just," we
rely specifically on the following. First, the initial
discovery request was made in July 1977. Despite
repeated orders from the court to provide the requested
material, on December 21, 1978, the District Court was
able to state that the petitioners [456 U.S. 708] "haven't
even made any effort to get this information up to this
point." 1 App. 112a. The court then warned petitioners
of a possible sanction. Confronted with continued delay
and an obvious disregard of its orders, the trial court's
invoking of its powers under Rule 37 was clearly
appropriate. Second, petitioners repeatedly agreed to
comply with the discovery orders within specified time
periods. In each instance, petitioners failed to comply
with their agreements. Third, respondent's allegation
that the court had personal jurisdiction over petitioners
was not a frivolous claim, and its attempt to use
discovery to substantiate this claim was not, therefore,
itself a misuse of judicial process. The substantiality of
the jurisdictional allegation is demonstrated by the fact
that the District Court found, as an alternative ground
for its jurisdiction, that petitioners had sufficient
contacts with Pennsylvania to fall within the State's
long-arm statute. Supra, at 699. Fourth, petitioners had
ample warning that a continued failure to comply with
the discovery orders would lead to the imposition of this
sanction. Furthermore, the proposed sanction made it
clear that, even if there was not compliance with the
discovery order, this sanction would not be applied if
petitioners were to "produce statistics and other
information" that would indicate an absence of personal
jurisdiction. 1 App. 116a. In effect, the District Court
simply placed the burden of proof upon petitioners on
the issue of personal jurisdiction.12 Petitioners failed to
comply with the discovery order; they also failed to
make any attempt to meet this burden of proof. This
course of behavior, coupled with the ample warnings,
demonstrates the "justice" of the trial court's order.
Neither can there be any doubt that this sanction
satisfies the second requirement. CBG was seeking
through discovery [456 U.S. 709] to respond to
petitioners' contention that the District Court did not
have personal jurisdiction. Having put the issue in
question, petitioners did not have the option of blocking
the reasonable attempt of CBG to meet its burden of
proof. It surely did not have this option once the court
had overruled petitioners' objections. Because of
petitioners' failure to comply with the discovery orders,
CBG was unable to establish the full extent of the
contacts between petitioners and Pennsylvania, the
critical issue in proving personal jurisdiction.
Petitioners' failure to supply the requested information
as to its contacts with Pennsylvania supports "the
presumption that the refusal to produce evidence . . .
was but an admission of the want of merit in the
asserted defense." Hammond Packing, 212 U. S., at 351.
The sanction took as established the facts — contacts
with Pennsylvania — that CBG was seeking to establish
through discovery. That a particular legal consequence
— personal jurisdiction of the court over the defendants
— follows from this, does not in any way affect the
appropriateness of the sanction.
IV
Because the application of a legal presumption to the
issue of personal jurisdiction does not in itself violate
the Due Process Clause and because there was no abuse
of the discretion granted a district court under Rule
37(b)(2), we affirm the judgment of the Court of
Appeals.
So ordered.