For the reasons stated in Parts I and II of the Court's
opinion, I agree that the Kansas courts properly
exercised jurisdiction over this class action. I also
recognize that the use of the word "compelling" in a
portion of the Kansas Supreme Court's opinion, when
read out of context, may create an inaccurate impression
of that court's choice-of-law holding. See ante, at 821.
Our job, however, is to review judgments, not to edit
opinions, and I am firmly convinced that there is no
constitutional defect in the judgment under review.
As the Court recognizes, there "can be no
[constitutional] injury in applying Kansas law if it is not
in conflict with that [472 U.S. 824] of any other
jurisdiction connected to this suit." Ante, at 816. A fair
reading of the Kansas Supreme Court's opinion in light
of its earlier opinion in Shutts v. Phillips Petroleum Co.,
222 Kan. 527, 567 P.2d 1292 (1977) (hereinafter Shutts
I), cert. denied, 434 U.S. 1068 (1978), reveals that the
Kansas court has examined the laws of connected
jurisdictions and has correctly concluded that there is no
"direct" or "substantive" conflict between the law
applied by Kansas and the laws of those other States. Cf.
ante, at 816, 821-822. Kansas has merely developed
general common-law principles to accommodate the
novel facts of this litigation — other state courts either
agree with Kansas or have not yet addressed precisely
similar claims. Consequently, I conclude that the Full
Faith and Credit Clause of the Constitution1 did not
require Kansas to apply the law of any other State, and
the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause2 did
not prevent Kansas from applying its own law in this
case.
The Court errs today because it applies a loose
definition of the sort of "conflict" of laws required to
state a constitutional claim, allowing Phillips a tactical
victory here merely on allegations of "putative" or
"likely" conflicts. Ante, at 816, 817. The Court's choiceof-law
analysis also treats the two relevant
constitutional provisions as though they imposed the
same constraints on the forum court. In my view,
however, the potential impact of the Kansas choice on
the interests of other sovereign States and the fairness of
its decision to the litigants should be separately
considered. See Allstate Insurance Co. v. Hague, 449
U.S. 302, 320 (1981) (STEVENS, J., concurring in
judgment). For both inquiries, it [472 U.S. 825] is
essential to have a better understanding of the merits of
the underlying dispute than can be gleaned from the
Court's opinion. I therefore begin with an explanation
of the background of this litigation.
I
Petitioner (Phillips) is a large independent producer,
purchaser, and seller of natural gas. Beginning in 1954,
the prices at which it sold natural gas to interstate
pipeline companies were regulated by the Federal Power
Commission (Commission).3 Phillips Petroleum Co. v.
Wisconsin, 347 U.S. 672 (1954). As a party to a large
number of producing oil and gas leases, Phillips is
obligated to pay a percentage of the value of the
production, usually one-eighth, to persons owning an
interest in the leased areas, so-called "royalty owners."
Some royalty owners are due monthly royalties by
contractual agreements made directly with Phillips. See
Shutts I, supra, at 532, 567 P. 2d, at 1298. Others are due
royalties under contracts made with other gas producers
who then sell their gas to Phillips — by separate contract
with those producers, Phillips has "assumed the
producer's responsibility to distribute the royalties . . . to
the royalty owners." 235 Kan. 195, 218, 679 P.2d 1159,
1178 (1984). The relationship between Phillips and the
royalty owners is not regulated by the Commission
although it is, of course, materially affected by the
Commission's control over the pricing relationship
between Phillips and its customers.
In a series of orders entered after 1954, the Commission
established a practice of suspending price increases
proposed by Phillips until approved by the Commission,
but allowing Phillips to collect the higher proposed
prices upon the filing by Phillips with the Commission
of a corporate undertaking to refund to its customers
any portion of an increase [472 U.S. 826] that is
ultimately disapproved by the Commission. Pursuant to
Commission regulation, Phillips agrees that unapproved
prices it collects are subject to refund "with interest at
seven percent (7%) per annum from the date of receipt
until September 18, 1970, and eight percent (8%) per
annum thereafter until paid out, if the FPC [does] not
approve the sales price." Shutts I, supra, at 533, 567 P.
2d, at 1299 (emphasis deleted) (citing 18 CFR §
154.102(c) (1977) and Commission opinion No. 586, 44
F. P. C. 761, 791 (1970)). Phillips' receipts during
periods when its proposed price increases have not yet
received final approval therefore include two
components — the "firm" proceeds and the "FPC
suspense money." For example, while an increase in
price from 11 cents per Mcf (thousand cubic feet) to 13
cents is under consideration, the collection of the higher
price would include firm proceeds of 11 cents and 2
cents of FPC suspense money.
In July 1961, while a price increase applicable to the
tristate Hugoton-Anadarko area (Kansas, Oklahoma,
and Texas) was pending, Phillips sent a notice to the
royalty owners for that area advising them that "until
further notice" they would be paid royalties on the basis
of firm proceeds only and that royalties based on
suspense money would be paid only after it was
"determined that the sums collected are no longer
subject to refund." The notice also advised the royalty
owners that they could receive ongoing payment of
royalties on the suspense money as well if they furnished
Phillips with an "acceptable indemnity to cover their
proportionate part of any required refunds, plus the
required interest." Shutts I, 222 Kan., at 534, 567 P. 2d,
at 1299 (emphasis added).4 The indemnity which
Phillips required was a corporate [472 U.S. 827] security
bond covering a principal amount based on estimated
production for a 2-year period, plus the 7% interest rate
Phillips would be required to pay to its customers if the
price increase were not approved. Only 17 royalty
owners provided Phillips with such an indemnity;
approximately 6,400 royalty owners who did not do so
did not receive royalties on the suspense proceeds until
11 years later, after the price increase was finally
approved. The situation was succinctly summarized by
the Kansas Supreme Court in Shutts I:
"From June 1, 1961, to October 1, 1970, Phillips deposited the
increased rate monies collected in its general account and
commingled it with its other funds, without ever giving notice of
this fact to royalty owners during the time it was holding money. It
is important to note that during this period of time Phillips had no
entitlement to the gas royalty owners' share of the `suspense
royalties,' whether or not the rates were approved by the FPC.
Phillips never owned this money. While Phillips collected eighteighths
(8/8) of the increased rates, under no condition was the
one-eighth (1/8) of the increase attributable to the royalty owners
ever to go to Phillips. That royalty share, according to eventual FPC
ruling, was either to go to Phillips' royalty owners, or back to
Phillips' gas purchasers with interest, or part to one and part to the
other." Id., at 535, 567 P. 2d, at 1300 (emphasis in original).
[472 U.S. 828] In 1970, the Commission entered an
order approving Phillips' Hugoton-Anadarko price
increases to the extent of approximately $153,000,000
and disapproving them to the extent of approximately
$29,000,000. Thus, over 18% of the suspense money had
to be refunded to Phillips' customers, with interest at the
rates to which Phillips had agreed under Commission
regulation. Having no jurisdiction over the relationship
between Phillips and the royalty owners, however, the
Commission's order was silent on the subject of
royalties on the $153 million of suspense money that did
not have to be refunded. After the Commission's order
was finally affirmed by the Ninth Circuit in 1972, In re
Hugoton-Anadarko Area Rate Case, 466 F.2d 974,
Phillips mailed checks to the royalty owners for their
share of the suspense moneys based on the approved
higher prices that had been collected since 1961.
However, "Phillips neither paid nor offered to pay any
interest for the use of the money, nor did Phillips say
anything about interest or how long the money had
been held or used by Phillips." Shutts I, supra, at 537,
567 P. 2d, at 1301.
The foregoing facts gave rise to Shutts I. This case
(Shutts II) involves suspense royalties due on similar
price increases approved in 1976, 1977, and 1978 to a
larger number of royalty owners (28,100) with interests
in leased areas located in 11 States, including Kansas.
Otherwise, however, "[w]ith a few exceptions this case
is similar in legal issues and factual situation to that
presented in Shutts [I]." 235 Kan., at 198, 679 P. 2d, at
1165. Both cases involve what the Kansas Supreme
Court has characterized as a "common fund" consisting
of the suspense royalties undeniably owed by Phillips
[472 U.S. 829] but not paid for periods of several years
while Commission approval of rate increases were
pending.5 It is undisputed that Phillips enjoyed the
unfettered use of that money. See 222 Kan., at 560, 567
P. 2d, at 1316 (testimony of Phillips' Treasurer). It is also
undisputed that when the Commission proceedings
ended, none of the money could be retained by Phillips.
To the extent that a price increase was disapproved, a
refund to the purchasing pipelines, plus interest at the
rate set by the Commission, would be required; to the
extent that the increases were approved, the money was
contractually owned to the royalty owners. As the
Kansas court noted: "What is significant is these gas
royalty suspense monies never did nor could belong to
Phillips." Ibid. (emphasis deleted).6
[472 U.S. 830] In Shutts I, the Kansas Supreme Court
held that general equitable principles required the award
of interest on royalties owned to royalty owners but
used by Phillips for a number of years. In support of that
conclusion it relied on general statements in two Kansas
cases7 and a long line of federal cases applying Texas law
and concluding that equity requires "the award of
interest on suspense royalties under similar
circumstances." Id., at 561, 567 P. 2d, at 1317.8 The
court noted that Oklahoma had no decisions allowing
interest on suspense royalties, but concluded that
"several Oklahoma decisions hold that interest may be
awarded on equitable grounds where necessary to arrive
at a fair compensation. (Smith v. Owens, 397 P.2d 673
[Okla. 1963]; and First Nat. Bank & T. Co. v. Exchange
Nat. Bank and T. Co., 517 P.2d 805 [Okla. App.
1973])."9 Finally, the court construed the royalty
agreements at issue as containing a "contractual [472
U.S. 831] obligation" to pay interest on the royalties "for
the period of time the suspense money was held and
used by Phillips." Id., at 562, 567 P. 2d, at 1317. Thus the
Kansas court also found its result consistent with the
only Texas state-court decision on point, Stahl
Petroleum Co. v. Phillips Petroleum Co., 550 S.W.2d
360 (Tex. Civ. App. 1977), which had "awarded interest
on suspended royalties" based on "the terms of the
royalty agreement . . . rather than unjust enrichment."
222 Kan., at 561, 567 P. 2d, at 1317. Significantly, when
the Texas Supreme Court subsequently affirmed the
Stahl judgment, it relied on the Kansas Supreme Court's
decision in Shutts I to decide that equity as well as
contract law requires interest on suspense royalties.
Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Stahl Petroleum Co., 569
S.W.2d 480, 485-488, and n. 5 (1978).
After determining that Phillips was liable for interest on
the suspense royalties, the court reversed the trial
court's decision that the rate should be 6% because that
was the statutory interest rate in Kansas, Oklahoma, and
Texas. The Kansas Supreme Court noted that the
statutory rate in all three States expressly applied only
when no other rate had been agreed upon,10 and that in
this case Phillips had made an express agreement,
evidenced by its corporate undertaking, to pay interest
at the rate set by the Commission on suspense moneys
found refundable. 222 Kan., at 564, 567 P. 2d, at 1319.
The Kansas court therefore declined to apply any State's
interest statute, including its own. "[E]quitable
principles require, and contractual principles dictate,
that the royalty owners receive the same treatment" as
refunded purchasers, [472 U.S. 832] that is, payment at
the same FPC rate of interest.11 Id., at 563, 567 P. 2d, at
1318.
Finally, the Kansas Supreme Court rejected Phillips'
contention that royalty owners had "waived" their
claims to interest by accepting payment of the royalties
later or by failing to post an indemnity "acceptable" to
Phillips in order to receive contemporaneous payment
of suspense royalties. The court noted that the
"conditions imposed by Phillips were far more stringent
than the corporate undertaking Phillips filed with the
FPC," id., at 567, 567 P. 2d, at 1320, and concluded that
it was "apparent [that] Phillips' previous imposition of
burdensome conditions upon royalty owners . . . was
designed to accomplish precisely what the facts disclose.
Virtually none of the royalty owners complied with the
conditions, thereby leaving the suspense royalties in the
hands of Phillips as stakeholder to use at its pleasure . . .
." Id., at 566, 567 P. 2d, at 1320. The court found the rule
that "payment of the principal sum is a legal bar to a
subsequent action for interest" inapplicable on these
facts. Id., at 567, 567 P. 2d, at 1321. Instead, because
"payment of [the royalties due] to the plaintiff class
members, instead of extinguishing the debt, constituted
only a partial payment on an interest-bearing debt[,]
[t]his situation invokes application of the so-called
`United States Rule,' which provides that in applying
partial payments to an interest-bearing debt which is
due, in [472 U.S. 833] the absence of an agreement or
statute to the contrary, the payment should be first
applied to the interest due." Ibid.12
In Shutts II, the case now under review, the Kansas
Supreme Court adopted its earlier analysis in Shutts I
without repeating it. "Although a larger class is involved
than in Shutts I, the legal issues presented are
substantially the same. While these issues are complex
they were thoroughly reviewed in Shutts I." 235 Kan., at
211, 679 P. 2d, at 1174.13 Noting that "Phillips has not
satisfactorily established why this court should not apply
the rule enunciated in Shutts I, " the Kansas court went
on to state that once jurisdiction over [472 U.S. 834] a
"nationwide class action" is properly asserted, "the law
of the forum should be applied unless compelling
reasons exist for applying a different law." Id., at 221,
679 P. 2d, at 1181.
II
This Court, of course, can have no concern with the
substantive merits of common-law decisions reached by
state courts faithfully applying their own law or the law
of another State. When application of purely state law is
at issue, "[t]he power delegated to us is for the restraint
of unconstitutional [action] by the States, and not for
the correction of alleged errors committed by their
judiciary." Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v.
Buckingham's Executors, 5 How. 317, 343 (1847). The
Constitution does not expressly mandate particular or
correct choices of law. Rather, a state court's choice of
law can invoke constitutional protections, and hence
our jurisdiction, only if it contravenes some explicit
constitutional limitation.14
Thus it has long been settled that "a mere
misconstruction by the forum of the laws of a sister
State is not a violation of the Full Faith and Credit
Clause." Carroll v. Lanza, 349 U.S. 408, 414, n. 1 (1955)
(Frankfurter, J., dissenting).15 That Clause requires only
that States accord "full faith and credit" to other States'
laws — that is, acknowledge the validity and finality of
such laws and attempt in good faith to apply them when
necessary as they would be applied by home state [472
U.S. 835] courts.16 But as Justice Holmes explained,
when there is "nothing to suggest that [one State's
court] was not candidly construing [another State's law]
to the best of its ability, . . . even if it was wrong
something more than an error of construction is
necessary" to invoke the Constitution. Pennsylvania Fire
Ins. Co. v. Gold Issue Mining & Milling Co., 243 U.S.
93, 96 (1917).
Merely to state these general principles is to refute any
argument that Kansas' decision below violated the Full
Faith and Credit Clause. As the opinion in Shutts I
indicates, the Kansas court made a careful survey of the
relevant laws of Oklahoma and Texas, the only other
States whose law is proffered as relevant to this
litigation. But, as the Court acknowledges, ante, at 816-
818, no other State's laws or judicial decisions were
precisely on point, and, in the Kansas court's judgment,
roughly analogous Texas and Oklahoma cases supported
the results the Kansas court reached. The Kansas court
expressly declared that, in a multistate action, a "court
should also give careful consideration, as we have
attempted to do, to any possible conflict of law
problems." 222 Kan., at 557, 567 P. 2d, at 1314.17 While
a common-law judge might disagree with the
substantive legal determinations made by the Kansas
court (although nothing in its opinion seems erroneous
to me), that court's approach to the possible choices of
law evinces precisely the "full faith and credit" that the
Constitution requires.
[472 U.S. 836] It is imaginable that even a good-faith
review of another State's law might still "unjustifiably
infring[e] upon the legitimate interests of another State"
so as to violate the Full Faith and Credit Clause. Allstate,
449 U. S., at 323 (STEVENS, J., concurring in
judgment). If, for example, a Texas oil company or a
Texas royalty owner with an interest in a Texas lease
were treated directly contrary to a stated policy of the
State of Texas by a Kansas court through some honest
blunder, the Constitution might bar such "parochial
entrenchment" on Texas' interests. Thomas v.
Washington Gas Light Co., 448 U.S. 261, 272 (1980)
(plurality opinion).18 But this case is so distant from
such a situation that I need not pursue this theoretical
possibility. Even Phillips does not contend that any
stated policies of other States have been plainly
contravened, and the Court's discussion is founded
merely on an absence of reported decisions and the
Court's speculation of what Oklahoma or Texas courts
might "most likely" do in a case like this. Ante, at 817.
There is simply no demonstration here that the Kansas
Supreme Court's decision has impaired the legitimate
interests of any other States or infringed on their
sovereignty in the slightest.
[472 U.S. 837] III
It is nevertheless possible for a State's choice of law to
violate the Constitution because it is so "totally arbitrary
or. . . fundamentally unfair" to a litigant that it violates
the Due Process Clause. Allstate, 449 U. S., at 326
(STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment). If the forum
court has no connection to the lawsuit other than its
jurisdiction over the parties, a decision to apply the
forum State's law might so "frustrat[e] the justifiable
expectations of the parties" as to be unconstitutional. Id.,
at 327.19
Again, however, a constitutional claim of "unfair
surprise" cannot be based merely upon an unexpected
choice of a particular State's law — it must rest on a
persuasive showing of an unexpected result arrived at by
application of that law. Thus, absent any conflict of
laws, in terms of the results they produce, the Due
Process Clause simply has not been violated. This is
because the underlying theory of a choice-of-law due
process claim must be that parties plan their conduct
and contractual relations based upon their legitimate
expectations [472 U.S. 838] concerning the subsequent
legal consequences of their actions. For example, they
might base a decision on the belief that the law of a
particular State will govern. But a change in that State's
law in the interim between the execution and the
performance of the contract would not violate the Due
Process Clause. Nor would the Constitution be violated
simply because a state court made an unanticipated
ruling on a previously unanswered question of law —
perhaps a choice-of-law question.
In this case it is perfectly clear that there has been no
due process violation because this is a classic "false
conflicts" case.20 Phillips has not demonstrated that any
significant conflicts exist merely because Oklahoma and
Texas state case law is silent concerning the equitable
theories developed by the Kansas courts in this
litigation, or even because the language of some
Oklahoma and Texas statutes suggests that those States
would "most likely" reach different results. Ante, at 816-
818. The Court's heavy reliance on the characterization
of the law provided by Phillips is not an adequate
substitute for a neutral review. Ante, at 816, 817
("Petitioner claims," "petitioner shows," "petitioner
points to," "Petitioner also points out . . ."). As is
unmistakable from a review of Shutts I, the Kansas
Supreme Court has examined the same laws cited by the
Court today as indicative of "direct" conflicts, and
construed them as supportive of the [472 U.S. 839]
Kansas result.21 Our precedents, to say nothing of the
Constitution and our statutory jurisdiction to review
state-court judgments, do not permit the Court to
second-guess these substantive judgments. Moreover,
an independent examination demonstrates solid support
for the Kansas court's conclusions.22
[472 U.S. 840] The crux of my disagreement with the
Court is over the standard applied to evaluate the
sufficiency of allegations of choice-of-law conflicts
necessary to support a constitutional [472 U.S. 841]
claim. Rather than potential, "putative," or even "likely"
conflicts, I would require demonstration of an
unambiguous conflict with the established law of
another State as an essential element of a constitutional
choice-of-law claim. Arguments that a state court has
merely applied general common-law principles in a
novel manner, or reconciled arguably [472 U.S. 842]
conflicting laws erroneously in the face of
unprecedented factual circumstances should not suffice
to make out a constitutional issue.
In this case, the Kansas Supreme Court's application of
general principles of equity, its interpretation of the
agreements, its reliance on the Commission's
regulations,23 and its construction of general statutory
terms contravened no established legal principles of
other States and consequently cannot be characterized as
either arbitrary or fundamentally unfair to Phillips. I
therefore can find no due process violation in the
Kansas court's decision.24
[472 U.S. 843] IV
In final analysis, the Court today may merely be
expressing its disagreement with the Kansas Supreme
Court's statement that in a "nationwide class action . . .
the law of the forum should be applied unless
compelling reasons exist for applying a different law."
235 Kan., at 221, 679 P. 2d, at 1181. Considering this
statement against the background of the Kansas
Supreme Court's careful analysis in Shutts I, however, I
am confident that court would agree that every state
court has an obligation under the Full Faith and Credit
Clause to "respect the legitimate interests of other States
and avoid infringement upon their sovereignty."
Allstate, 449 U. S., at 322 (STEVENS, J., concurring in
judgment); see Nevada v. Hall, 440 U.S. 410, 421, 424, n.
24 (1979).
It is also agreed that "the fact that a choice-of-law
decision may be unsound . . . does not necessarily
implicate the federal concerns embodied in the Full
Faith and Credit Clause." Allstate, 449 U. S., at 323
(STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment); see ante, at 823
("in many situations a state court may be free to apply
one of several choices of law"); Allstate, 449 U. S., at 307
(plurality opinion). When a suit involves claims
connected to States other than the forum State, the
Constitution requires only that the relevant laws of
other States that are brought to the attention of the
forum court be examined fairly prior to making a choice
of law.25 Because this Court "reviews judgments, not
opinions," Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources
Defense Council, Inc., 467 U.S. 837, 842 (1984),
criticism of a portion of the Kansas [472 U.S. 844]
court's opinion taken out of context provides an
insufficient basis for reversing its judgment. Unless the
actual choice of Kansas law violated substantial
constitutional rights of the parties, see 28 U. S. C. §
2111, our power to review judgments of state law —
including the state law of choice of law — does not
extend to reversal based on disagreement with the law's
application. A review of the record and the underlying
litigation here convincingly demonstrates that, despite
Phillips' protestations regarding Kansas' development of
common-law principles, no disregard for the laws of
other States nor unfair application of Kansas law to the
litigants has occurred.26 Phillips has no constitutional
right to avoid judgment in Kansas because it might have
convinced a court in another State to develop its law
differently.
I do not believe the Court should engage in detailed
evaluations of various States' laws. To the contrary, I
believe our limited jurisdiction to review state-court
judgments should foreclose such review.27 Accordingly,
I trust that today's [472 U.S. 845] decision is no more
than a momentary aberration, and that the Court's
opinion will not be read as a decision to
constitutionalize novel state-court developments in the
common law whenever a litigant can claim that another
State connected to the litigation "most likely" would
reach a different result. The Court long ago decided that
state-court choices of law are unreviewable here absent
demonstration of an unambiguous conflict in the
established laws of connected States. See n. 15, supra.
"To hold otherwise would render it possible to bring to
this court every case wherein the defeated party claimed
that the statute of another State had been construed to
his detriment." Johnson v. New York Life Ins. Co., 187
U.S. 491, 496 (1903). Having ignored this admonition
today, the Court may be forced to renew its turn-of-thecentury
efforts to convince the bar that state-court
judgments based on fair evaluations of other States' laws
are final.
Accordingly, while I join Parts I and II of the Court's
opinion, I respectfully dissent from Part III and from the
judgment.