Petitioner is a Delaware corporation which has its
principal place of business in Oklahoma. During the
1970's it produced or purchased natural gas from leased
land located in 11 different States, and sold most of the
gas in interstate commerce. Respondents are some
28,000 of the royalty owners possessing rights to the
leases from which petitioner produced the gas; they
reside in all 50 States, the District of Columbia, and
several foreign countries. Respondents brought a class
action against petitioner in the Kansas state court,
seeking to recover interest on royalty payments which
had been delayed by petitioner. They recovered
judgment in the trial court, and the Supreme Court of
Kansas affirmed the judgment over petitioner's
contentions that the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment prevented Kansas from
adjudicating the claims of all the respondents, and that
the Due Process Clause and the Full Faith and Credit
Clause of Article IV of the Constitution prohibited the
application of Kansas law to all of the transactions
between petitioner and respondents. 235 Kan. 195, 679
P.2d 1159 (1984). We granted certiorari to consider
these claims. 469 U.S. 879 (1984). We reject petitioner's
jurisdictional claim, but sustain its claim regarding the
choice of law.
Because petitioner sold the gas to its customers in
interstate commerce, it was required to secure approval
for price increases from what was then the Federal
Power Commission, and is now the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission. Under its regulations the
Federal Power Commission permitted petitioner to
propose and collect tentative higher gas prices, subject
to final approval by the Commission. If the Commission
eventually denied petitioner's proposed price increase or
reduced the proposed increase, petitioner would [472
U.S. 800] have to refund to its customers the difference
between the approved price and the higher price
charged, plus interest at a rate set by statute. See 18 CFR
§ 154.102 (1984).
Although petitioner received higher gas prices pending
review by the Commission, petitioner suspended any
increase in royalties paid to the royalty owners because
the higher price could be subject to recoupment by
petitioner's customers. Petitioner agreed to pay the
higher royalty only if the royalty owners would provide
petitioner with a bond or indemnity for the increase,
plus interest, in case the price increase was not
ultimately approved and a refund was due to the
customers. Petitioner set the interest rate on the
indemnity agreements at the same interest rate the
Commission would have required petitioner to refund
to its customers. A small percentage of the royalty
owners provided this indemnity and received royalties
immediately from the interim price increases; these
royalty owners are unimportant to this case.
The remaining royalty owners received no royalty on
the unapproved portion of the prices until the Federal
Power Commission approval of those prices became
final. Royalties on the unapproved portion of the gas
price were suspended three times by petitioner,
corresponding to its three proposed price increases in
the mid-1970's. In three written opinions the
Commission approved all of petitioner's tentative price
increases, so petitioner paid to its royalty owners the
suspended royalties of $3.7 million in 1976, $4.7 million
in 1977, and $2.9 million in 1978. Petitioner paid no
interest to the royalty owners although it had the use of
the suspended royalty money for a number of years.
Respondents Irl Shutts, Robert Anderson, and Betty
Anderson filed suit against petitioner in Kansas state
court, seeking interest payments on their suspended
royalties which petitioner had possessed pending the
Commission's approval of the price increases. Shutts is a
resident of Kansas, and the Andersons live in Oklahoma.
Shutts and the Andersons [472 U.S. 801] own gas leases
in Oklahoma and Texas. Over petitioner's objection the
Kansas trial court granted respondents' motion to certify
the suit as a class action under Kansas law. Kan. Stat.
Ann. § 60-223 et seq. (1983). The class as certified was
comprised of 33,000 royalty owners who had royalties
suspended by petitioner. The average claim of each
royalty owner for interest on the suspended royalties
was $100.
After the class was certified respondents provided each
class member with notice through first-class mail. The
notice described the action and informed each class
member that he could appear in person or by counsel;
otherwise each member would be represented by Shutts
and the Andersons, the named plaintiffs. The notices
also stated that class members would be included in the
class and bound by the judgment unless they "opted out"
of the lawsuit by executing and returning a "request for
exclusion" that was included with the notice. The final
class as certified contained 28,100 members; 3,400 had
"opted out" of the class by returning the request for
exclusion, and notice could not be delivered to another
1,500 members, who were also excluded. Less than
1,000 of the class members resided in Kansas. Only a
minuscule amount, approximately one quarter of one
percent, of the gas leases involved in the lawsuit were on
Kansas land.
After petitioner's mandamus petition to decertify the
class was denied, Phillips Petroleum v. Duckworth, No.
82-54608 (Kan., June 28, 1982), cert. denied, 459 U.S.
1103 (1983), the case was tried to the court. The court
found petitioner liable under Kansas law for interest on
the suspended royalties to all class members. The trial
court relied heavily on an earlier, unrelated class action
involving the same nominal plaintiff and the same
defendant, Shutts, Executor v. Phillips Petroleum Co.,
222 Kan. 527, 567 P.2d 1292 (1977), cert. denied, 434
U.S. 1068 (1978). The Kansas Supreme Court had held
in Shutts, Executor that a gas company owed interest to
royalty owners for royalties suspended pending final
Commission approval of a price increase. No federal
statutes [472 U.S. 802] touched on the liability for
suspended royalties, and the court in Shutts, Executor
held as a matter of Kansas equity law that the applicable
interest rates for computation of interest on suspended
royalties were the interest rates at which the gas
company would have had to reimburse its customers
had its interim price increase been rejected by the
Commission. The court in Shutts, Executor viewed
these as the fairest interest rates because they were also
the rates that petitioner required the royalty owners to
meet in their indemnity agreements in order to avoid
suspended royalties.
The trial court in the present case applied the rule from
Shutts, Executor, and held petitioner liable for
prejudgment and postjudgment interest on the
suspended royalties, computed at the Commission rates
governing petitioner's three price increases. See 18 CFR
§ 154.102 (1984). The applicable interest rates were: 7%
for royalties retained until October 1974; 9% for
royalties retained between October 1974 and September
1979; and thereafter at the average prime rate. The trial
court did not determine whether any difference existed
between the laws of Kansas and other States, or whether
another State's laws should be applied to non-Kansas
plaintiffs or to royalties from leases in States other than
Kansas. 235 Kan., at 221, 679 P. 2d, at 1180.
Petitioner raised two principal claims in its appeal to the
Supreme Court of Kansas. It first asserted that the
Kansas trial court did not possess personal jurisdiction
over absent plaintiff class members as required by
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310
(1945), and similar cases. Related to this first claim was
petitioner's contention that the "opt-out" notice to
absent class members, which forced them to return the
request for exclusion in order to avoid the suit, was
insufficient to bind class members who were not
residents of Kansas or who did not possess "minimum
contacts" with Kansas. Second, petitioner claimed that
Kansas courts could not apply Kansas law to every claim
in the dispute. The trial court should have looked to the
laws of each State [472 U.S. 803] where the leases were
located to determine, on the basis of conflict of laws
principles, whether interest on the suspended royalties
was recoverable, and at what rate.
The Supreme Court of Kansas held that the entire cause
of action was maintainable under the Kansas classaction
statute, and the court rejected both of petitioner's
claims. 235 Kan. 195, 679 P.2d 1159 (1984). First, it held
that the absent class members were plaintiffs, not
defendants, and thus the traditional minimum contacts
test of International Shoe did not apply. The court held
that nonresident class-action plaintiffs were only
entitled to adequate notice, an opportunity to be heard,
an opportunity to opt out of the case, and adequate
representation by the named plaintiffs. If these
procedural due process minima were met, according to
the court, Kansas could assert jurisdiction over the
plaintiff class and bind each class member with a
judgment on his claim. The court surveyed the course of
the litigation and concluded that all of these minima had
been met.
The court also rejected petitioner's contention that
Kansas law could not be applied to plaintiffs and royalty
arrangements having no connection with Kansas. The
court stated that generally the law of the forum
controlled all claims unless "compelling reasons" existed
to apply a different law. The court found no compelling
reasons, and noted that "[t]he plaintiff class members
have indicated their desire to have this action
determined under the laws of Kansas." 235 Kan., at 222,
679 P. 2d, at 1181. The court affirmed as a matter of
Kansas equity law the award of interest on the
suspended royalties, at the rates imposed by the trial
court. The court set the postjudgment interest rate on
all claims at the Kansas statutory rate of 15%. Id., at 224,
679 P. 2d, at 1183.
I
As a threshold matter we must determine whether
petitioner has standing to assert the claim that Kansas
did not possess proper jurisdiction over the many
plaintiffs in the [472 U.S. 804] class who were not
Kansas residents and had no connection to Kansas.
Respondents claim that a party generally may assert only
his own rights, and that petitioner has no standing to
assert the rights of its adversary, the plaintiff class, in
order to defeat the judgment in favor of the class.
Standing to sue in any Article III court is, of course, a
federal question which does not depend on the party's
prior standing in state court. Doremus v. Board of
Education, 342 U.S. 429, 434 (1952); Baker v. Carr, 369
U.S. 186, 204 (1962). Generally stated, federal standing
requires an allegation of a present or immediate injury
in fact, where the party requesting standing has "alleged
such a personal stake in the outcome of the controversy
as to assure that concrete adverseness which sharpens
the presentation of issues." Ibid. There must be some
causal connection between the asserted injury and the
challenged action, and the injury must be of the type
"likely to be redressed by a favorable decision." Valley
Forge Christian College v. Americans United for
Separation of Church and State, Inc., 454 U.S. 464, 472
(1982). See Simon v. Eastern Kentucky Welfare Rights
Org., 426 U.S. 26, 41-42 (1976); Arlington Heights v.
Metropolitan Housing Dev. Corp., 429 U.S. 252, 261
(1977).
Additional prudential limitations on standing may exist
even though the Article III requirements are met
because "the judiciary seeks to avoid deciding questions
of broad social import where no individual rights would
be vindicated and to limit access to the federal courts to
those litigants best suited to assert a particular claim."
Gladstone, Realtors v. Village of Bellwood, 441 U.S. 91,
99-100 (1979). One of these prudential limits on
standing is that a litigant must normally assert his own
legal interests rather than those of third parties. See
Singleton v. Wulff, 428 U.S. 106 (1976); Craig v. Boren,
429 U.S. 190 (1976).
Respondents claim that petitioner is barred by the rule
requiring that a party assert only his own rights; they
point out that respondents and petitioner are
adversaries and do [472 U.S. 805] not have allied
interests such that petitioner would be a good
proponent of class members' interests. They further
urge that petitioner's interference is unneeded because
the class members have had opportunity to complain
about Kansas' assertion of jurisdiction over their claim,
but none have done so. See Singleton, supra, at 113-114.
Respondents may be correct that petitioner does not
possess standing jus tertii, but this is not the issue.
Petitioner seeks to vindicate its own interests. As a classaction
defendant petitioner is in a unique predicament.
If Kansas does not possess jurisdiction over this plaintiff
class, petitioner will be bound to 28,100 judgment
holders scattered across the globe, but none of these will
be bound by the Kansas decree. Petitioner could be
subject to numerous later individual suits by these class
members because a judgment issued without proper
personal jurisdiction over an absent party is not entitled
to full faith and credit elsewhere and thus has no res
judicata effect as to that party. Whether it wins or loses
on the merits, petitioner has a distinct and personal
interest in seeing the entire plaintiff class bound by res
judicata just as petitioner is bound. The only way a classaction
defendant like petitioner can assure itself of this
binding effect of the judgment is to ascertain that the
forum court has jurisdiction over every plaintiff whose
claim it seeks to adjudicate, sufficient to support a
defense of res judicata in a later suit for damages by class
members.
While it is true that a court adjudicating a dispute may
not be able to predetermine the res judicata effect of its
own judgment, petitioner has alleged that it would be
obviously and immediately injured if this class-action
judgment against it became final without binding the
plaintiff class. We think that such an injury is sufficient
to give petitioner standing on its own right to raise the
jurisdiction claim in this Court.
Petitioner's posture is somewhat similar to the trust
settlor defendant in Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U.S. 235
(1958), who we found to have standing to challenge the
forum's personal [472 U.S. 806] jurisdiction over an outof-state
trust company which was an indispensable party
under the forum State's law. Because the court could not
proceed with the action without jurisdiction over the
trust company, we observed that "any defendant affected
by the court's judgment ha[d] that `direct and
substantial personal interest in the outcome' that is
necessary to challenge whether that jurisdiction was in
fact acquired." Id., at 245, quoting Chicago v. Atchison,
T. & S. F. R. Co., 357 U.S. 77 (1958).
II
Reduced to its essentials, petitioner's argument is that
unless out-of-state plaintiffs affirmatively consent, the
Kansas courts may not exert jurisdiction over their
claims. Petitioner claims that failure to execute and
return the "request for exclusion" provided with the
class notice cannot constitute consent of the out-of-state
plaintiffs; thus Kansas courts may exercise jurisdiction
over these plaintiffs only if the plaintiffs possess the
sufficient "minimum contacts" with Kansas as that term
is used in cases involving personal jurisdiction over outof-state
defendants. E. g., International Shoe Co. v.
Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945); Shaffer v. Heitner,
433 U.S. 186 (1977); World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v.
Woodson, 444 U.S. 286 (1980). Since Kansas had no
prelitigation contact with many of the plaintiffs and
leases involved, petitioner claims that Kansas has
exceeded its jurisdictional reach and thereby violated the
due process rights of the absent plaintiffs.
In International Shoe we were faced with an out-ofstate
corporation which sought to avoid the exercise of
personal jurisdiction over it as a defendant by a
Washington state court. We held that the extent of the
defendant's due process protection would depend "upon
the quality and nature of the activity in relation to the
fair and orderly administration of the laws . . . ." 326 U.
S., at 319. We noted that the Due Process Clause did not
permit a State to make a binding judgment against a
person with whom the State had no contacts, [472 U.S.
807] ties, or relations. Ibid. If the defendant possessed
certain minimum contacts with the State, so that it was
"reasonable and just, according to our traditional
conception of fair play and substantial justice" for a State
to exercise personal jurisdiction, the State could force
the defendant to defend himself in the forum, upon pain
of default, and could bind him to a judgment. Id., at 320.
The purpose of this test, of course, is to protect a
defendant from the travail of defending in a distant
forum, unless the defendant's contacts with the forum
make it just to force him to defend there. As we
explained in Woodson, supra, the defendant's contacts
should be such that "he should reasonably anticipate
being haled" into the forum. 444 U. S., at 297. In
Insurance Corp. of Ireland v. Compagnie des Bauxites
de Guinee, 456 U.S. 694, 702-703, and n. 10 (1982), we
explained that the requirement that a court have
personal jurisdiction comes from the Due Process
Clause's protection of the defendant's personal liberty
interest, and said that the requirement "represents a
restriction on judicial power not as a matter of
sovereignty, but as a matter of individual liberty."
(Footnote omitted.)
Although the cases like Shaffer and Woodson which
petitioner relies on for a minimum contacts requirement
all dealt with out-of-state defendants or parties in the
procedural posture of a defendant, cf. New York Life
Ins. Co. v. Dunlevy, 241 U.S. 518 (1916); Estin v. Estin,
334 U.S. 541 (1948), petitioner claims that the same
analysis must apply to absent class-action plaintiffs. In
this regard petitioner correctly points out that a chose in
action is a constitutionally recognized property interest
possessed by each of the plaintiffs. Mullane v. Central
Hanover Bank & Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306 (1950). An
adverse judgment by Kansas courts in this case may
extinguish the chose in action forever through res
judicata. Such an adverse judgment, petitioner claims,
would be every bit as onerous to an absent plaintiff as an
adverse judgment on the merits would be to a
defendant. [472 U.S. 808] Thus, the same due process
protections should apply to absent plaintiffs: Kansas
should not be able to exert jurisdiction over the
plaintiffs' claims unless the plaintiffs have sufficient
minimum contacts with Kansas.
We think petitioner's premise is in error. The burdens
placed by a State upon an absent class-action plaintiff are
not of the same order or magnitude as those it places
upon an absent defendant. An out-of-state defendant
summoned by a plaintiff is faced with the full powers of
the forum State to render judgment against it. The
defendant must generally hire counsel and travel to the
forum to defend itself from the plaintiff's claim, or suffer
a default judgment. The defendant may be forced to
participate in extended and often costly discovery, and
will be forced to respond in damages or to comply with
some other form of remedy imposed by the court should
it lose the suit. The defendant may also face liability for
court costs and attorney's fees. These burdens are
substantial, and the minimum contacts requirement of
the Due Process Clause prevents the forum State from
unfairly imposing them upon the defendant.
A class-action plaintiff, however, is in quite a different
posture. The Court noted this difference in Hansberry v.
Lee, 311 U.S. 32, 40-41 (1940), which explained that a
"class" or "representative" suit was an exception to the
rule that one could not be bound by judgment in
personam unless one was made fully a party in the
traditional sense. Ibid., citing Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S.
714 (1878). As the Court pointed out in Hansberry, the
class action was an invention of equity to enable it to
proceed to a decree in suits where the number of those
interested in the litigation was too great to permit
joinder. The absent parties would be bound by the
decree so long as the named parties adequately
represented the absent class and the prosecution of the
litigation was within the common interest.1 311 U. S., at
41.
[472 U.S. 809] Modern plaintiff class actions follow the
same goals, permitting litigation of a suit involving
common questions when there are too many plaintiffs
for proper joinder. Class actions also may permit the
plaintiffs to pool claims which would be uneconomical
to litigate individually. For example, this lawsuit
involves claims averaging about $100 per plaintiff; most
of the plaintiffs would have no realistic day in court if a
class action were not available.
In sharp contrast to the predicament of a defendant
haled into an out-of-state forum, the plaintiffs in this
suit were not haled anywhere to defend themselves
upon pain of a default judgment. As commentators have
noted, from the plaintiffs' point of view a class action
resembles a "quasi-administrative proceeding,
conducted by the judge." 3B J. Moore & J. Kennedy,
Moore's Federal Practice ¶ 23.45 [4.-5] (1984); Kaplan,
Continuing Work of the Civil Committee: 1966
Amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (I),
81 Harv. L. Rev. 356, 398 (1967).
A plaintiff class in Kansas and numerous other
jurisdictions cannot first be certified unless the judge,
with the aid of the named plaintiffs and defendant,
conducts an inquiry into the common nature of the
named plaintiffs' and the absent plaintiffs' claims, the
adequacy of representation, the jurisdiction possessed
over the class, and any other matters that will bear upon
proper representation of the absent plaintiffs' interest.
See, e. g., Kan. Stat. Ann. § 60-223 (1983); Fed. Rule
Civ. Proc. 23. Unlike a defendant in a civil suit, a classaction
plaintiff is not required to fend for himself. See
Kan. Stat. Ann. § 60-223(d) (1983). The court and
named plaintiffs protect his interests. Indeed, the classaction
defendant itself has a great interest in ensuring
that the absent plaintiffs' claims are properly before the
forum. In this case, for [472 U.S. 810] example, the
defendant sought to avoid class certification by alleging
that the absent plaintiffs would not be adequately
represented and were not amendable to jurisdiction. See
Phillips Petroleum v. Duckworth, No. 82-54608 (Kan.,
June 28, 1982).
The concern of the typical class-action rules for the
absent plaintiffs is manifested in other ways. Most
jurisdictions, including Kansas, require that a class
action, once certified, may not be dismissed or
compromised without the approval of the court. In
many jurisdictions such as Kansas the court may amend
the pleadings to ensure that all sections of the class are
represented adequately. Kan. Stat. Ann. § 60-223(d)
(1983); see also, e. g., Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 23(d).
Besides this continuing solicitude for their rights, absent
plaintiff class members are not subject to other burdens
imposed upon defendants. They need not hire counsel
or appear. They are almost never subject to counter
claims or cross-claims, or liability for fees or costs.2
Absent plaintiff class members are not subject to
coercive or punitive remedies. Nor will an adverse
judgment typically bind an absent plaintiff for any
damages, although a valid adverse judgment may
extinguish any of the plaintiff's claims which were
litigated.
Unlike a defendant in a normal civil suit, an absent
class-action plaintiff is not required to do anything. He
may sit back and allow the litigation to run its course,
content in knowing that there are safeguards provided
for his protection. In most class actions an absent
plaintiff is provided at least with an opportunity to "opt
out" of the class, and if he takes advantage of that
opportunity he is removed from the [472 U.S. 811]
litigation entirely. This was true of the Kansas
proceedings in this case. The Kansas procedure
provided for the mailing of a notice to each class
member by first-class mail. The notice, as we have
previously indicated, described the action and informed
the class member that he could appear in person or by
counsel, in default of which he would be represented by
the named plaintiffs and their attorneys. The notice
further stated that class members would be included in
the class and bound by the judgment unless they "opted
out" by executing and returning a "request for exclusion"
that was included in the notice.
Petitioner contends, however, that the "opt out"
procedure provided by Kansas is not good enough, and
that an "opt in" procedure is required to satisfy the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Insofar
as plaintiffs who have no minimum contacts with the
forum State are concerned, an "opt in" provision would
require that each class member affirmatively consent to
his inclusion within the class.
Because States place fewer burdens upon absent class
plaintiffs than they do upon absent defendants in
nonclass suits, the Due Process Clause need not and does
not afford the former as much protection from statecourt
jurisdiction as it does the latter. The Fourteenth
Amendment does protect "persons," not "defendants,"
however, so absent plaintiffs as well as absent
defendants are entitled to some protection from the
jurisdiction of a forum State which seeks to adjudicate
their claims. In this case we hold that a forum State may
exercise jurisdiction over the claim of an absent classaction
plaintiff, even though that plaintiff may not
possess the minimum contacts with the forum which
would support personal jurisdiction over a defendant. If
the forum State wishes to bind an absent plaintiff
concerning a claim for money damages or similar relief
at law,3 it must provide minimal [472 U.S. 812]
procedural due process protection. The plaintiff must
receive notice plus an opportunity to be heard and
participate in the litigation, whether in person or
through counsel. The notice must be the best
practicable, "reasonably calculated, under all the
circumstances, to apprise interested parties of the
pendency of the action and afford them an opportunity
to present their objections." Mullane, 339 U. S., at 314-
315; cf. Eisen v. Carlisle & Jacquelin, 417 U.S. 156, 174-
175 (1974). The notice should describe the action and
the plaintiffs' rights in it. Additionally, we hold that due
process requires at a minimum that an absent plaintiff
be provided with an opportunity to remove himself
from the class by executing and returning an "opt out"
or "request for exclusion" form to the court. Finally, the
Due Process Clause of course requires that the named
plaintiff at all times adequately represent the interests of
the absent class members. Hansberry, 311 U. S., at 42-
43, 45.
We reject petitioner's contention that the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requires that
absent plaintiffs affirmatively "opt in" to the class, rather
than be deemed members of the class if they do not "opt
out." We think that such a contention is supported by
little, if any precedent, and that it ignores the differences
between class-action plaintiffs, on the one hand, and
defendants in nonclass civil suits on the other. Any
plaintiff may consent to jurisdiction. Keeton v. Hustler
Magazine, Inc., 465 U.S. 770 (1984). The essential
question, then, is how stringent the requirement for a
showing of consent will be.
We think that the procedure followed by Kansas, where
a fully descriptive notice is sent first-class mail to each
class member, with an explanation of the right to "opt
out," satisfies due process. Requiring a plaintiff to
affirmatively [472 U.S. 813] request inclusion would
probably impede the prosecution of those class actions
involving an aggregation of small individual claims,
where a large number of claims are required to make it
economical to bring suit. See, e. g., Eisen, supra, at 161.
The plaintiff's claim may be so small, or the plaintiff so
unfamiliar with the law, that he would not file suit
individually, nor would he affirmatively request
inclusion in the class if such a request were required by
the Constitution.4 If, on the other hand, the plaintiff's
claim is sufficiently large or important that he wishes to
litigate it on his own, he will likely have retained an
attorney or have thought about filing suit, and should be
fully capable of exercising his right to "opt out."
In this case over 3,400 members of the potential class
did "opt out," which belies the contention that "opt out"
procedures result in guaranteed jurisdiction by inertia.
Another 1,500 were excluded because the notice and
"opt out" form was undeliverable. We think that such
results show that the "opt out" procedure provided by
Kansas is by no means pro forma, and that the
Constitution does not require more to protect what
must be the somewhat rare species of class member who
is unwilling to execute an "opt out" form, but whose
claim is nonetheless so important that he cannot be
presumed to consent to being a member of the class by
his failure to do so. Petitioner's "opt in" requirement
would require the invalidation of scores of state statutes
and of the class-action provision of the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure,5 [472 U.S. 814] and for the reasons
stated we do not think that the Constitution requires the
State to sacrifice the obvious advantages in judicial
efficiency resulting form the "opt out" approach for the
protection of the rara avis portrayed by petitioner.
We therefore hold that the protection afforded the
plaintiff class members by the Kansas statute satisfies the
Due Process Clause. The interest of the absent plaintiffs
are sufficiently protected by the forum State when those
plaintiffs are provided with a request for exclusion that
can be returned within a reasonable time to the court.
See Insurance Corp. of Ireland, 456 U. S., at 702-703,
and n. 10. Both the Kansas trial court and the Supreme
Court of Kansas held that the class received adequate
representation, and no party disputes that conclusion
here. We conclude that the Kansas court properly
asserted personal jurisdiction over the absent plaintiffs
and their claims against petitioner.
III
The Kansas courts applied Kansas contract and Kansas
equity law to every claim in this case, notwithstanding
that [472 U.S. 815] over 99% of the gas leases and some
97% of the plaintiffs in the case had no apparent
connection to the State of Kansas except for this
lawsuit.6 Petitioner protested that the Kansas [472 U.S.
816] courts should apply the laws of the States where the
leases were located, or at least apply Texas and
Oklahoma law because so many of the leases came from
those States. The Kansas courts disregarded this
contention and found petitioner liable for interest on
the suspended royalties as a matter of Kansas law, and
set the interest rates under Kansas equity principles.
Petitioner contends that total application of Kansas
substantive law violated the constitutional limitations
on choice of law mandated by the Due Process Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment and the Full Faith and
Credit Clause of Article IV, § 1. We must first
determine whether Kansas law conflicts in any material
way with any other law which could apply. There can be
no injury in applying Kansas law if it is not in conflict
with that of any other jurisdiction connected to this suit.
Petitioner claims that Kansas law conflicts with that of a
number of States connected to this litigation, especially
Texas and Oklahoma. These putative conflicts range
from the direct to the tangential, and may be addressed
by the Supreme Court of Kansas on remand under the
correct constitutional standard. For example, there is no
recorded [472 U.S. 817] Oklahoma decision dealing with
interest liability for suspended royalties: whether
Oklahoma is likely to impose liability would require a
survey of Oklahoma oil and gas law. Even if Oklahoma
found such liability, petitioner shows that Oklahoma
would most likely apply its constitutional and statutory
6% interest rate rather than the much higher Kansas
rates applied in this litigation. Okla. Const., Art XIV, §
2; Okla. Stat., Tit. 15, § 266 (Supp. 1984-1985);
Rendezvous Trails of America, Inc. v. Ayers, 612 P.2d
1384, 1385 (Okla. App. 1980); Smith v. Robinson, 594
P.2d 364 (Okla. 1979); West Edmond Hunton Lime
Unit v. Young, 325 P.2d 1047 (Okla. 1958).
Additionally, petitioner points to an Oklahoma statute
which excuses liability for interest if a creditor accepts
payment of the full principal without a claim for
interest, Okla. Stat., Tit. 23, § 8 (1951). Cf. Webster
Drilling Co. v. Sterling Oil of Oklahoma, Inc., 376 P.2d
236 (Okla. 1962). Petitioner contends that by ignoring
this statute the Kansas courts created liability that does
not exist in Oklahoma.
Petitioner also points out several conflicts between
Kansas and Texas law. Although Texas recognizes
interest liability for suspended royalties, Texas has never
awarded any such interest at a rate greater than 6%,
which corresponds with the Texas constitutional and
statutory rate.7 Tex. Const., Art. 16, § 11; Tex. Rev. Civ.
Stat. Ann., Art. 5069-1.03 (Vernon 1971). See Phillips
Petroleum Co. v. Stahl Petroleum Co., 569 S.W.2d 480
(Tex. 1978); Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Adams, 513 F.2d
355 (CA5), cert. denied, 423 U.S. 930 (1975); cf. Maxey
v. Texas Commerce Bank, 580 S.W.2d 340, 341 (Tex.
1979). Moreover, at least one court interpreting Texas
law appears to have held that Texas excuses interest
[472 U.S. 818] liability once the gas company offers to
take an indemnity from the royalty owner and pay him
the suspended royalty while the price increase is still
tentative. Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Riverside Gas
Compression Co., 409 F.Supp. 486, 495-496 (ND Tex.
1976). Such a rule is contrary to Kansas law as applied
below, but if applied to the Texas plaintiffs or leases in
this case, would vastly reduce petitioner's liability.
The conflicts on the applicable interest rates, alone —
which we do not think can be labeled "false conflicts"
without a more thoroughgoing treatment than was
accorded them by the Supreme Court of Kansas —
certainly amounted to millions of dollars in liability. We
think that the Supreme Court of Kansas erred in
deciding on the basis that it did that the application of its
laws to all claims would be constitutional.
Four Terms ago we addressed a similar situation in
Allstate Ins. Co. v. Hague, 449 U.S. 302 (1981). In that
case we were confronted with two conflicting rules of
state insurance law. Minnesota permitted the "stacking"
of separate uninsured motorist policies while Wisconsin
did not. Although the decedent lived in Wisconsin, took
out insurance policies and was killed there, he was
employed in Minnesota, and after his death his widow
moved to Minnesota for reasons unrelated to the
litigation, and was appointed personal representative of
his estate. She filed suit in Minnesota courts, which
applied the Minnesota stacking rule.
The plurality in Allstate noted that a particular set of
facts giving rise to litigation could justify,
constitutionally, the application of more than one
jurisdiction's laws. The plurality recognized, however,
that the Due Process Clause and the Full Faith and
Credit Clause provided modest restrictions on the
application of forum law. These restrictions required
"that for a State's substantive law to be selected in a
constitutionally permissible manner, that State must
have a significant contact or significant aggregation of
contacts, creating state interests, such that choice of its
law is neither arbitrary nor fundamentally unfair." Id., at
312-313. The [472 U.S. 819] dissenting Justices were in
substantial agreement with this principle. Id., at 332
(opinion of POWELL, J., joined by BURGER, C. J., and
REHNQUIST, J.). The dissent stressed that the Due
Process Clause prohibited the application of law which
was only casually or slightly related to the litigation,
while the Full Faith and Credit Clause required the
forum to respect the laws and judgments of other States,
subject to the forum's own interests in furthering its
public policy. Id., at 335-336.
The plurality in Allstate affirmed the application of
Minnesota law because of the forum's significant
contacts to the litigation which supported the State's
interest in applying its law. See id., at 313-329. Kansas'
contacts to this litigation, as explained by the Kansas
Supreme Court, can be gleaned from the opinion below.
Petitioner owns property and conducts substantial
business in the State, so Kansas certainly has an interest
in regulating petitioner's conduct in Kansas. 235 Kan., at
210, 679 P. 2d, at 1174. Moreover, oil and gas extraction
is an important business to Kansas, and although only a
few leases in issue are located in Kansas, hundreds of
Kansas plaintiffs were affected by petitioner's
suspension of royalties; thus the court held that the State
has a real interest in protecting "the rights of these
royalty owners both as individual residents of [Kansas]
and as members of this particular class of plaintiffs." Id.,
at 211-212, 679 P. 2d, at 1174. The Kansas Supreme
Court pointed out that Kansas courts are quite familiar
with this type of lawsuit, and "[t]he plaintiff class
members have indicated their desire to have this action
determined under the laws of Kansas." Id., at 211, 222,
679 P. 2d, at 1174, 1181. Finally, the Kansas court
buttressed its use of Kansas law by stating that this
lawsuit was analogous to a suit against a "common fund"
located in Kansas. Id., at 201, 211-212, 679 P. 2d, at
1168, 1174.
We do not lightly discount this description of Kansas'
contacts with this litigation and its interest in applying
its law. There is, however, no "common fund" located in
Kansas that [472 U.S. 820] would require or support the
application of only Kansas law to all these claims. See, e.
g., Hartford Life Ins. Co. v. Ibs, 237 U.S. 662 (1915). As
the Kansas court noted, petitioner commingled the
suspended royalties with its general corporate accounts.
235 Kan., at 201, 679 P. 2d, at 1168. There is no specific
identifiable res in Kansas, nor is there any limited
amount which may be depleted before every plaintiff is
compensated. Only by somehow aggregating all the
separate claims in this case could a "common fund" in
any sense be created, and the term becomes all but
meaningless when used in such an expansive sense.
We also give little credence to the idea that Kansas law
should apply to all claims because the plaintiffs, by
failing to opt out, evinced their desire to be bound by
Kansas law. Even if one could say that the plaintiffs
"consented" to the application of Kansas law by not
opting out, plaintiff's desire for forum law is rarely, if
ever controlling. In most cases the plaintiff shows his
obvious wish for forum law by filing there. "If a plaintiff
could choose the substantive rules to be applied to an
action . . . the invitation to forum shopping would be
irresistible." Allstate, supra, at 337 (opinion of
POWELL, J.). Even if a plaintiff evidences his desire for
forum law by moving to the forum, we have generally
accorded such a move little or no significance. John
Hancock Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Yates, 299 U.S. 178, 182
(1936); Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, 281 U.S. 397, 408 (1930).
In Allstate the plaintiff's move to the forum was only
relevant because it was unrelated and prior to the
litigation. 449 U. S., at 318-319. Thus the plaintiffs'
desire for Kansas law, manifested by their participation
in this Kansas lawsuit, bears little relevance.
The Supreme Court of Kansas in its opinion in this case
expressed the view that by reason of the fact that it was
adjudicating a nationwide class action, it had much
greater latitude in applying its own law to the
transactions in question than might otherwise be the
case:
[472 U.S. 821] "The general rule is that the law of the forum applies
unless it is expressly shown that a different law governs, and in case
of doubt, the law of the forum is preferred.. . . Where a state court
determines it has jurisdiction over a nationwide class action and
procedural due process guarantees of notice and adequate
representation are present, we believe the law of the forum should
be applied unless compelling reasons exist for applying a different
law. . . . Compelling reasons do not exist to require this court to
look to other state laws to determine the rights of the parties
involved in this lawsuit." 235 Kan., at 221-222, 679 P. 2d, at 1181.
We think that this is something of a "bootstrap"
argument. The Kansas class-action statute, like those of
most other jurisdictions, requires that there be
"common issues of law or fact." But while a State may,
for the reasons we have previously stated, assume
jurisdiction over the claims of plaintiffs whose principal
contacts are with other States, it may not use this
assumption of jurisdiction as an added weight in the
scale when considering the permissible constitutional
limits on choice of substantive law. It may not take a
transaction with little or no relationship to the forum
and apply the law of the forum in order to satisfy the
procedural requirement that there be a "common
question of law." The issue of personal jurisdiction over
plaintiffs in a class action is entirely distinct from the
question of the constitutional limitations on choice of
law; the latter calculus is not altered by the fact that it
may be more difficult or more burdensome to comply
with the constitutional limitations because of the large
number of transactions which the State proposes to
adjudicate and which have little connection with the
forum.
Kansas must have a "significant contact or significant
aggregation of contacts" to the claims asserted by each
member of the plaintiff class, contacts "creating state
interests," in order to ensure that the choice of Kansas
law is not arbitrary [472 U.S. 822] or unfair. Allstate, 449
U. S., at 312-313. Given Kansas' lack of "interest" in
claims unrelated to that State, and the substantive
conflict with jurisdictions such as Texas, we conclude
that application of Kansas law to every claim in this case
is sufficiently arbitrary and unfair as to exceed
constitutional limits.8
When considering fairness in this context, an important
element is the expectation of the parties. See Allstate,
supra, at 333 (opinion of POWELL, J.). There is no
indication that when the leases involving land and
royalty owners outside of Kansas were executed, the
parties had any idea that Kansas law would control.
Neither the Due Process Clause nor the Full Faith and
Credit Clause requires Kansas "to substitute for its own
[laws], applicable to persons and events within it, the
conflicting statute of another state," Pacific Employees
Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306 U.S. 493,
502 (1939), but Kansas "may not abrogate the rights of
parties beyond its borders having no relation to
anything done or to be done within them." Home Ins.
Co. v. Dick, supra, at 410.
Here the Supreme Court of Kansas took the view that in
a nationwide class action where procedural due process
guarantees [472 U.S. 823] of notice and adequate
representation were met, "the law of the forum should
be applied unless compelling reasons exist for applying a
different law." 235 Kan., at 221, 679 P. 2d, at 1181.
Whatever practical reasons may have commended this
rule to the Supreme Court of Kansas, for the reasons
already stated we do not believe that it is consistent with
the decisions of this Court. We make no effort to
determine for ourselves which law must apply to the
various transactions involved in this lawsuit, and we
reaffirm our observation in Allstate that in many
situations a state court may be free to apply one of
several choices of law. But the constitutional limitations
laid down in cases such as Allstate and Home Ins. Co. v.
Dick, supra, must be respected even in a nationwide
class action.
We therefore affirm the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Kansas insofar as it upheld the jurisdiction of
the Kansas courts over the plaintiff class members in
this case, and reverse its judgment insofar as it held that
Kansas law was applicable to all of the transactions
which it sought to adjudicate. We remand the case to
that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.