It is indeed remarkable that the Court, in the face of the
long and careful opinion of the Court of Appeals,
reaches the result it does. The Court of Appeals
faithfully followed the relevant precedents, including
First National Bank of Arizona v. Cities Service Co., 391
U.S. 253 (1968), and Monsanto Co. v. Spray-Rite
Service Corp., 465 U.S. 752 (1984), and it kept firmly in
mind the principle that proof of a conspiracy should not
be fragmented, see Continental Ore Co. v. Union
Carbide & Carbon Corp., 370 U.S. 690, 699 (1962).
After surveying the massive record, including very [475
U.S. 599] significant evidence that the District Court
erroneously had excluded, the Court of Appeals
concluded that the evidence taken as a whole creates a
genuine issue of fact whether petitioners engaged in a
conspiracy in violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act
and § 2(a) of the Robinson-Patman Act. In my view, the
Court of Appeals' opinion more than adequately
supports this judgment.
The Court's opinion today, far from identifying
reversible error, only muddies the waters. In the first
place, the Court makes confusing and inconsistent
statements about the appropriate standard for granting
summary judgment. Second, the Court makes a number
of assumptions that invade the factfinder's province.
Third, the Court faults the Third Circuit for nonexistent
errors and remands the case although it is plain that
respondents' evidence raises genuine issues of material
fact.
I
The Court's initial discussion of summary judgment
standards appears consistent with settled doctrine. I
agree that "[w]here the record taken as a whole could
not lead a rational trier of fact to find for the
nonmoving party, there is no `genuine issue for trial.' "
Ante, at 587 (quoting Cities Service, supra, at 289). I also
agree that " `[o]n summary judgment the inferences to
be drawn from the underlying facts . . . must be viewed
in the light most favorable to the party opposing the
motion.' " Ante, at 587 (quoting United States v.
Diebold, Inc., 369 U.S. 654, 655 (1962)). But other
language in the Court's opinion suggests a departure
from traditional summary judgment doctrine. Thus, the
Court gives the following critique of the Third Circuit's
opinion:
"[T]he Court of Appeals concluded that a reasonable factfinder
could find a conspiracy to depress prices in the American market in
order to drive out American competitors, which conspiracy was
funded by excess profits obtained in the Japanese market. The court
apparently did not consider whether it was as plausible to conclude
[475 U.S. 600] that petitioners' price-cutting behavior was
independent and not conspiratorial." Ante, at 581.
In a similar vein, the Court summarizes Monsanto Co.
v. Spray-Rite Service Corp., supra, as holding that
"courts should not permit factfinders to infer
conspiracies when such inferences are implausible . . . ."
Ante, at 593. Such language suggests that a judge
hearing a defendant's motion for summary judgment in
an antitrust case should go beyond the traditional
summary judgment inquiry and decide for himself
whether the weight of the evidence favors the plaintiff.
Cities Service and Monsanto do not stand for any such
proposition. Each of those cases simply held that a
particular piece of evidence standing alone was
insufficiently probative to justify sending a case to the
jury.1 These holdings in no way undermine [475 U.S.
601] the doctrine that all evidence must be construed in
the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.
If the Court intends to give every judge hearing a
motion for summary judgment in an antitrust case the
job of determining if the evidence makes the inference
of conspiracy more probable than not, it is overturning
settled law. If the Court does not intend such a
pronouncement, it should refrain from using
unnecessarily broad and confusing language.
II
In defining what respondents must show in order to
recover, the Court makes assumptions that invade the
factfinder's province. The Court states with very little
discussion that respondents can recover under § 1 of the
Sherman Act only if they prove that "petitioners
conspired to drive respondents out of the relevant
markets by (i) pricing below the level necessary to sell
their products, or (ii) pricing below some appropriate
measure of cost." Ante, at 585, n. 8. This statement is
premised on the assumption that "[a]n agreement
without these features would either leave respondents in
the same position as would market forces or would
actually benefit respondents by raising market prices."
Ibid. In making this assumption, the Court ignores the
contrary conclusions of respondents' expert DePodwin,
whose report in very relevant part was erroneously
excluded by the District Court.
The DePodwin Report, on which the Court of Appeals
relied along with other material, indicates that
respondents were harmed in two ways that are
independent of whether petitioners priced their
products below "the level necessary to sell their products
or . . . some appropriate measure of cost." Ibid. First, the
Report explains that the price-raising scheme in Japan
resulted in lower consumption of petitioners' goods in
that country and the exporting of more of petitioners'
goods to this country than would have occurred had
prices in Japan been at the competitive level. Increasing
[475 U.S. 602] exports to this country resulted in
depressed prices here, which harmed respondents.2
Second, the DePodwin Report indicates that petitioners
exchanged confidential proprietary information and
entered into agreements such as the five company rule
with the goal of avoiding intragroup competition in the
United States market. The Report explains that
petitioners' restrictions on intragroup competition
caused respondents to lose business that they would not
have lost had petitioners competed with one another.3
[475 U.S. 603] The DePodwin Report alone creates a
genuine factual issue regarding the harm to respondents
caused by Japanese cartelization and by agreements
restricting competition among petitioners in this
country. No doubt the Court prefers its own economic
theorizing to Dr. DePodwin's, but that is not a reason to
deny the factfinder an opportunity to consider Dr.
DePodwin's views on how petitioners' alleged collusion
harmed respondents.4
[475 U.S. 604] The Court, in discussing the unlikelihood
of a predatory conspiracy, also consistently assumes that
petitioners valued profit-maximization over growth.
See, e. g., ante, at 595. In light of the evidence that
petitioners sold their goods in this country at substantial
losses over a long period of time, see Part III-B, infra, I
believe that this is an assumption that should be argued
to the factfinder, not decided by the Court.
III
In reversing the Third Circuit's judgment, the Court
identifies two alleged errors: "(i) [T]he `direct evidence'
on which the [Court of Appeals] relied had little, if any,
relevance to the alleged predatory pricing conspiracy;
and (ii) the court failed to consider the absence of a
plausible motive to engage in predatory pricing." Ante,
at 595. The Court's position is without substance.
A
The first claim of error is that the Third Circuit treated
evidence regarding price fixing in Japan and the socalled
five company rule and check prices as " `direct
evidence' of a conspiracy that injured respondents."
Ante, at 583 (citing In re Japanese Electronics Products
Antitrust Litigation, 723 F.2d 238, 304-305 (1983)). The
passage from the Third [475 U.S. 605] Circuit's opinion
in which the Court locates this alleged error makes what
I consider to be a quite simple and correct observation,
namely, that this case is distinguishable from traditional
"conscious parallelism" cases, in that there is direct
evidence of concert of action among petitioners. Ibid.
The Third Circuit did not, as the Court implies, jump
unthinkingly from this observation to the conclusion
that evidence regarding the five company rule could
support a finding of antitrust injury to respondents.5
The Third Circuit twice specifically noted that
horizontal agreements allocating customers, though
illegal, do not ordinarily injure competitors of the
agreeing parties. Id., at 306, 310-311. However, after
reviewing evidence of cartel activity in Japan, collusive
establishment of dumping prices in this country, and
longterm, below-cost sales, the Third Circuit held that a
factfinder could reasonably conclude that the five
company rule was not a simple price-raising device:
"[A] factfinder might reasonably infer that the allocation of
customers in the United States, combined with price-fixing in
Japan, was intended to permit concentration of the effects of
dumping upon American competitors while eliminating
competition among the Japanese manufacturers in either market."
Id., at 311.
I see nothing erroneous in this reasoning.
B
The Court's second charge of error is that the Third
Circuit was not sufficiently skeptical of respondents'
allegation that petitioners engaged in predatory pricing
conspiracy. But [475 U.S. 606] the Third Circuit is not
required to engage in academic discussions about
predation; it is required to decide whether respondents'
evidence creates a genuine issue of material fact. The
Third Circuit did its job, and remanding the case so that
it can do the same job again is simply pointless.
The Third Circuit indicated that it considers
respondents' evidence sufficient to create a genuine
factual issue regarding long-term, below-cost sales by
petitioners. Ibid. The Court tries to whittle away at this
conclusion by suggesting that the "expert opinion
evidence of below-cost pricing has little probative value
in comparison with the economic factors. . . that suggest
that such conduct is irrational." Ante, at 594, n. 19. But
the question is not whether the Court finds respondents'
experts persuasive, or prefers the District Court's
analysis; it is whether, viewing the evidence in the light
most favorable to respondents, a jury or other factfinder
could reasonably conclude that petitioners engaged in
long-term, below-cost sales. I agree with the Third
Circuit that the answer to this question is "yes."
It is misleading for the Court to state that the Court of
Appeals "did not disturb the District Court's analysis of
the factors that substantially undermine the probative
value of [evidence in the DePodwin Report respecting
below-cost sales]." Ibid. The Third Circuit held that the
exclusion of the portion of the DePodwin Report
regarding below-cost pricing was erroneous because
"the trial court ignored DePodwin's uncontradicted
affidavit that all data relied on in his report were of the
type on which experts in his field would reasonably
rely." 723 F. 2d, at 282. In short, the Third Circuit found
DePodwin's affidavit sufficient to create a genuine
factual issue regarding the correctness of his conclusion
that petitioners sold below cost over a long period of
time. Having made this determination, the court saw no
need — nor do I — to address the District Court's
analysis point by point. The District Court's criticisms of
DePodwin's [475 U.S. 607] methods are arguments that
a factfinder should consider.
IV
Because I believe that the Third Circuit was correct in
holding that respondents have demonstrated the
existence of genuine issues of material fact, I would
affirm the judgment below and remand this case for
trial.