This case requires the Court to determine whether
Celotex satisfied its initial burden of production in
moving for summary judgment on the ground that the
plaintiff lacked evidence to establish an essential element
of her case at trial. I do not disagree with the Court's
legal analysis. The Court clearly rejects the ruling of the
Court of Appeals that the defendant must provide
affirmative evidence disproving the plaintiff's case.
Beyond this, however, the Court has not clearly
explained what is required of a moving party seeking
summary judgment on the ground that the nonmoving
party cannot prove its case.1 This lack of clarity is
unfortunate: district courts must routinely decide
summary judgment motions, and the Court's opinion
will very likely create confusion. For this reason, even if
I agreed with the Court's result, I would have written
separately to explain more clearly the law in this area.
However, because I believe that Celotex did not meet its
burden of production under Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure 56, I respectfully dissent from the Court's
judgment.
[477 U.S. 330] I
Summary judgment is appropriate where the court is
satisfied "that there is no genuine issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law." Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 56(c).
The burden of establishing the nonexistence of a
"genuine issue" is on the party moving for summary
judgment. 10A C. Wright, A. Miller, & M. Kane,
Federal Practice and Procedure § 2727, p. 121 (2d ed.
1983) (hereinafter Wright) (citing cases); 6 J. Moore,
W. Taggart & J. Wicker, Moore's Federal Practice ¶
56.15[3] (2d ed. 1985) (hereinafter Moore) (citing
cases). See also, ante, at 323; ante, at 328 (WHITE, J.,
concurring). This burden has two distinct components:
an initial burden of production, which shifts to the
nonmoving party if satisfied by the moving party; and
an ultimate burden of persuasion, which always remains
on the moving party. See 10A Wright § 2727. The court
need not decide whether the moving party has satisfied
its ultimate burden of persuasion2 unless and until the
court finds that the moving party has discharged its
initial [477 U.S. 331] burden of production. Adickes v. S.
H. Kress & Co., 398 U.S. 144, 157-161 (1970); 1963
Advisory Committee's Notes on Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.
56(e), 28 U. S. C. App., p. 626.
The burden of production imposed by Rule 56 requires
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that it
is entitled to summary judgment. 10A Wright § 2727.
The manner in which this showing can be made
depends upon which party will bear the burden of
persuasion on the challenged claim at trial. If the
moving party will bear the burden of persuasion at trial,
that party must support its motion with credible
evidence — using any of the materials specified in Rule
56(c) — that would entitle it to a directed verdict if not
controverted at trial. Ibid. Such an affirmative showing
shifts the burden of production to the party opposing
the motion and requires that party either to produce
evidentiary materials that demonstrate the existence of a
"genuine issue" for trial or to submit an affidavit
requesting additional time for discovery. Ibid.; Fed.
Rules Civ. Proc. 56(e), (f).
If the burden of persuasion at trial would be on the
nonmoving party, the party moving for summary
judgment may satisfy Rule 56's burden of production in
either of two ways. First, the moving party may submit
affirmative evidence that negates an essential element of
the nonmoving party's claim. Second, the moving party
may demonstrate to the court that the nonmoving
party's evidence is insufficient to establish an essential
element of the nonmoving party's claim. See 10A
Wright § 2727, pp. 130-131; Louis, Federal Summary
Judgment Doctrine: A Critical Analysis, 83 Yale L. J.
745, 750 (1974) (hereinafter Louis). If the nonmoving
party cannot muster sufficient evidence to make out its
claim, a trial would be useless and the moving party is
entitled to summary judgment as a matter of law.
Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., ante, at 249.
Where the moving party adopts this second option and
seeks summary judgment on the ground that the
nonmoving party — who will bear the burden of
persuasion at trial — has [477 U.S. 332] no evidence, the
mechanics of discharging Rule 56's burden of
production are somewhat trickier. Plainly, a conclusory
assertion that the nonmoving party has no evidence is
insufficient. See ante, at 328 (WHITE, J., concurring).
Such a "burden" of production is no burden at all and
would simply permit summary judgment procedure to
be converted into a tool for harassment. See Louis 750-
751. Rather, as the Court confirms, a party who moves
for summary judgment on the ground that the
nonmoving party has no evidence must affirmatively
show the absence of evidence in the record. Ante, at
323. This may require the moving party to depose the
nonmoving party's witnesses or to establish the
inadequacy of documentary evidence. If there is literally
no evidence in the record, the moving party may
demonstrate this by reviewing for the court the
admissions, interrogatories, and other exchanges
between the parties that are in the record. Either way,
however, the moving party must affirmatively
demonstrate that there is no evidence in the record to
support a judgment for the nonmoving party.
If the moving party has not fully discharged this initial
burden of production, its motion for summary judgment
must be denied, and the court need not consider
whether the moving party has met its ultimate burden
of persuasion. Accordingly, the nonmoving party may
defeat a motion for summary judgment that asserts that
the nonmoving party has no evidence by calling the
court's attention to supporting evidence already in the
record that was overlooked or ignored by the moving
party. In that event, the moving party must respond by
making an attempt to demonstrate the inadequacy of
this evidence, for it is only by attacking all the record
evidence allegedly supporting the nonmoving party that
a party seeking summary judgment satisfies Rule 56's
burden of production.3 Thus, if the record disclosed that
the moving [477 U.S. 333] party had overlooked a
witness who would provide relevant testimony for the
nonmoving party at trial, the court could not find that
the moving party had discharged its initial burden of
production unless the moving party sought to
demonstrate the inadequacy of this witness' testimony.
Absent such a demonstration, summary judgment
would have to be denied on the ground that the moving
party had failed to meet its burden of production under
Rule 56.
The result in Adickes v. S. H. Kress & Co., supra, is fully
consistent with these principles. In that case, petitioner
was refused service in respondent's lunchroom and then
was arrested for vagrancy by a local policeman as she
left. Petitioner brought an action under 42 U. S. C. §
1983 claiming that the refusal of service and subsequent
arrest were the product of a conspiracy between
respondent and the police; as proof of this conspiracy,
petitioner's complaint alleged that the arresting officer
was in respondent's store at the time service was
refused. Respondent subsequently moved for summary
judgment on the ground that there was no actual
evidence in the record from which a jury could draw an
inference of conspiracy. In response, petitioner pointed
to a statement from her own deposition and an unsworn
statement by a Kress employee, both already in the
record and both ignored by respondent, that the
policeman who arrested petitioner was in the store at
the time she was refused service. We agreed that "[i]f a
policeman were present, . . . it would be open to a jury,
in light of the sequence that followed, [477 U.S. 334] to
infer from the circumstances that the policeman and
Kress employee had a `meeting of the minds' and thus
reached an understanding that petitioner should be
refused service." 398 U. S., at 158. Consequently, we
held that it was error to grant summary judgment "on
the basis of this record" because respondent had "failed
to fulfill its initial burden" of demonstrating that there
was no evidence that there was a policeman in the store.
Id., at 157-158.
The opinion in Adickes has sometimes been read to
hold that summary judgment was inappropriate because
the respondent had not submitted affirmative evidence
to negate the possibility that there was a policeman in
the store. See Brief for Respondent 20, n. 30 (citing
cases). The Court of Appeals apparently read Adickes
this way and therefore required Celotex to submit
evidence establishing that plaintiff's decedent had not
been exposed to Celotex asbestos. I agree with the Court
that this reading of Adickes was erroneous and that
Celotex could seek summary judgment on the ground
that plaintiff could not prove exposure to Celotex
asbestos at trial. However, Celotex was still required to
satisfy its initial burden of production.
II
I do not read the Court's opinion to say anything
inconsistent with or different than the preceding
discussion. My disagreement with the Court concerns
the application of these principles to the facts of this
case.
Defendant Celotex sought summary judgment on the
ground that plaintiff had "failed to produce" any
evidence that her decedent had ever been exposed to
Celotex asbestos.4 App. 170. Celotex supported this
motion with a [477 U.S. 335] two-page "Statement of
Material Facts as to Which There is No Genuine Issue"
and a three-page "Memorandum of Points and
Authorities" which asserted that the plaintiff had failed
to identify any evidence in responding to two sets of
interrogatories propounded by Celotex and that
therefore the record was "totally devoid" of evidence to
support plaintiff's claim. See id., at 171-176.
Approximately three months earlier, Celotex had filed
an essentially identical motion. Plaintiff responded to
this earlier motion by producing three pieces of
evidence which she claimed "[a]t the very least . . .
demonstrate that there is a genuine factual dispute for
trial," id., at 143: (1) a letter from an insurance
representative of another defendant describing asbestos
products to which plaintiff's decedent had been exposed,
id., at 160; (2) a letter from T. R. Hoff, a former
supervisor of decedent, describing asbestos products to
which decedent had been exposed, id., at 162; and (3) a
copy of decedent's deposition from earlier workmen's
compensation proceedings, id., at 164. Plaintiff also
apparently indicated [477 U.S. 336] at that time that she
intended to call Mr. Hoff as a witness at trial. Tr. of Oral
Arg. 6-7, 27-29.
Celotex subsequently withdrew its first motion for
summary judgment. See App. 167.5 However, as a result
of this motion, when Celotex filed its second summary
judgment motion, the record did contain evidence —
including at least one witness — supporting plaintiff's
claim. Indeed, counsel for Celotex admitted to this
Court at oral argument that Celotex was aware of this
evidence and of plaintiff's intention to call Mr. Hoff as a
witness at trial when the second summary judgment
motion was filed. Tr. of Oral Arg. 5-7. Moreover,
plaintiff's response to Celotex' second motion pointed to
this evidence — noting that it had already been provided
to counsel for Celotex in connection with the first
motion — and argued that Celotex had failed to "meet its
burden of proving that there is no genuine factual
dispute for trial." App. 188.
On these facts, there is simply no question that Celotex
failed to discharge its initial burden of production.
Having chosen to base its motion on the argument that
there was no evidence in the record to support plaintiff's
claim, Celotex was not free to ignore supporting
evidence that the record clearly contained. Rather,
Celotex was required, as an initial matter, to attack the
adequacy of this evidence. Celotex' failure to fulfill this
simple requirement constituted a failure to discharge its
initial burden of production under Rule 56, and thereby
rendered summary judgment improper.6
[477 U.S. 337] This case is indistinguishable from
Adickes. Here, as there, the defendant moved for
summary judgment on the ground that the record
contained no evidence to support an essential element of
the plaintiff's claim. Here, as there, the plaintiff
responded by drawing the court's attention to evidence
that was already in the record and that had been ignored
by the moving party. Consequently, here, as there,
summary judgment should be denied on the ground that
the moving party failed to satisfy its initial burden of
production.7