The Court today holds that "whether a given factual
dispute requires submission to a jury must be guided by
the substantive evidentiary standards that apply to the
case," ante, at 255. In my view, the Court's analysis is
deeply flawed, [477 U.S. 258] and rests on a shaky
foundation of unconnected and unsupported
observations, assertions, and conclusions. Moreover, I
am unable to divine from the Court's opinion how these
evidentiary standards are to be considered, or what a
trial judge is actually supposed to do in ruling on a
motion for summary judgment. Accordingly, I
respectfully dissent.
To support its holding that in ruling on a motion for
summary judgment a trial court must consider
substantive evidentiary burdens, the Court
appropriately begins with the language of Rule 56(c),
which states that summary judgment shall be granted if
it appears that there is "no genuine issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law." The Court then purports
to restate this Rule, and asserts that "summary judgment
will not lie if the dispute about a material fact is
`genuine,' that is, if the evidence is such that a
reasonable jury could return a verdict for the
nonmoving party." Ante, at 248. No direct authority is
cited for the proposition that in order to determine
whether a dispute is "genuine" for Rule 56 purposes a
judge must ask if a "reasonable" jury could find for the
nonmoving party. Instead, the Court quotes from First
National Bank of Arizona v. Cities Service Co., 391 U.S.
253, 288-289 (1968),[477 U.S. 259] to the effect that a
summary judgment motion will be defeated if "sufficient
evidence supporting the claimed factual dispute be
shown to require a jury or judge to resolve the parties'
differing versions of the truth at trial," ante, at 249, and
that a plaintiff may not, in defending against a motion
for summary judgment, rest on mere allegations or
denials of his pleadings. After citing Adickes v. S. H.
Kress & Co., 398 U.S. 144 (1970), for the unstartling
proposition that "the availability of summary judgment
turn[s] on whether a proper jury question [is]
presented," ante, at 249, the Court then reasserts, again
with no direct authority, that in determining whether a
jury question is presented, the inquiry is whether there
are factual issues "that properly can be resolved only by a
finder of fact because they may reasonably be resolved in
favor of either party." Ante, at 250. The Court maintains
that this summary judgment inquiry "mirrors" that
which applies in the context of a motion for directed
verdict under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 50(a):
"whether the evidence presents a sufficient
disagreement to require submission to a jury or whether
it is so one-sided that one party must prevail as a matter
of law." Ante, at 251-252.
Having thus decided that a "genuine" dispute is one
which is not "one-sided," and one which could
"reasonably" be resolved by a "fair-minded" jury in favor
of either party, ibid., the Court then concludes:
"Whether a jury could reasonably find for either party, however,
cannot be defined except by the criteria governing what evidence
would enable the jury to find for either the plaintiff or the
defendant: It makes no sense to say that a jury could reasonably find
for either party without some benchmark as to what standards
govern its deliberations and within what boundaries its ultimate
decision must fall, and these standards and boundaries are in fact
provided by the applicable evidentiary standards." Ante, at 254-255.
[477 U.S. 260] As far as I can discern, this conclusion,
which is at the heart of the case, has been reached
without the benefit of any support in the case law.
Although, as noted above, the Court cites Adickes and
Cities Service, those cases simply do not stand for the
proposition that in ruling on a summary judgment
motion, the trial court is to inquire into the "onesidedness"
of the evidence presented by the parties.
Cities Service involved the propriety of a grant of
summary judgment in favor of a defendant alleged to
have conspired to violate the antitrust laws. The issue in
the case was whether, on the basis of the facts in the
record, a jury could infer that the defendant had entered
into a conspiracy to boycott. No direct evidence of the
conspiracy was produced. In agreeing with the lower
courts that the circumstantial evidence presented by the
plaintiff was insufficient to take the case to the jury, we
observed that there was "one fact" that petitioner had
produced to support the existence of the illegal
agreement, and that that single fact could not support
petitioner's theory of liability. Critically, we observed
that "[t]he case at hand presents peculiar difficulties
because the issue of fact crucial to petitioner's case is also
an issue of law, namely the existence of a conspiracy."
391 U. S., at 289. In other words, Cities Service is at
heart about whether certain facts can support inferences
that are, as a matter of antitrust law, sufficient to
support a particular theory of liability under the
Sherman Act. Just this Term, in discussing summary
judgment in the context of suits brought under the
antitrust laws, we characterized both Cities Service and
Monsanto Co. v. Spray-Rite Service Corp., 465 U.S. 752
(1984), as cases in which "antitrust law limit[ed] the
range of permissible inferences from ambiguous
evidence. . . ." Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. v.
Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574, 588 (1986) (emphasis
added). Cities Service thus provides no authority for the
conclusion that Rule 56 requires a trial court to consider
whether direct evidence produced by the parties is "onesided."
To the contrary, in Matsushita, the most recent
[477 U.S. 261] case to cite and discuss Cities Service, we
stated that the requirement that a dispute be "genuine"
means simply that there must be more than "some
metaphysical doubt as to the material facts." 475 U. S., at
586.
Nor does Adickes, also relied on by the Court, suggest in
any way that the appropriate summary judgment
inquiry is whether the evidence overwhelmingly
supports one party. Adickes, like Cities Service,
presented the question of whether a grant of summary
judgment in favor of a defendant on a conspiracy count
was appropriate. The plaintiff, a [477 U.S. 262] white
schoolteacher, maintained that employees of defendant
Kress conspired with the police to deny her rights
protected by the Fourteenth Amendment by refusing to
serve her in one of its lunchrooms simply because she
was white and accompanied by a number of black
schoolchildren. She maintained, among other things,
that Kress arranged with the police to have her arrested
for vagrancy when she left the defendant's premises. In
support of its motion for summary judgment, Kress
submitted statements from a deposition of one of its
employees asserting that he had not communicated or
agreed with the police to deny plaintiff service or to
have her arrested, and explaining that the store had
taken the challenged action not because of the race of
the plaintiff, but because it was fearful of the reaction of
some of its customers if it served a racially mixed group.
Kress also submitted affidavits from the Chief of Police
and the arresting officers denying that the store
manager had requested that petitioner be arrested, and
noted that in the plaintiff's own deposition, she
conceded that she had no knowledge of any
communication between the police and any Kress
employee and was relying on circumstantial evidence to
support her allegations. In opposing defendant's motion
for summary judgment, plaintiff stated that defendant in
its moving papers failed to dispute an allegation in the
complaint, a statement at her deposition, and an
unsworn statement by a Kress employee all to the effect
that there was a policeman in the store at the time of the
refusal to serve, and that it was this policeman who
subsequently made the arrest. Plaintiff argued that this
sequence of events "created a substantial enough
possibility of a conspiracy to allow her to proceed to
trial. . . ." 398 U. S., at 157.
We agreed, and therefore reversed the lower courts,
reasoning that Kress "did not carry its burden because of
its failure to foreclose the possibility that there was a
policeman in the Kress store while petitioner was
awaiting service, and that this policeman reached an
understanding with some [477 U.S. 263] Kress employee
that petitioner not be served." Ibid. Despite the fact that
none of the materials relied on by plaintiff met the
requirements of Rule 56(e), we stated nonetheless that
Kress failed to meet its initial burden of showing that
there was no genuine dispute of a material fact.
Specifically, we held that because Kress failed to negate
plaintiff's materials suggesting that a policeman was in
fact in the store at the time of the refusal to serve, "it
would be open to a jury . . . to infer from the
circumstances that the policeman and a Kress employee
had a `meeting of the minds' and thus reached an
understanding that petitioner should be refused service."
Id., at 158.
In Adickes we held that a jury might permissibly infer a
conspiracy from the mere presence of a policeman in a
restaurant. We never reached and did not consider
whether the evidence was "one-sided," and had we done
so, we clearly would have had to affirm, rather than
reverse, the lower courts, since in that case there was no
admissible evidence submitted by petitioner, and a
significant amount of evidence presented by the
defendant tending to rebut the existence of a conspiracy.
The question we did reach was simply whether, as a
matter of conspiracy law, a jury would be entitled, again,
as a matter of law, to infer from the presence of a
policeman in a restaurant the making of an agreement
between that policeman and an employee. Because we
held that a jury was entitled so to infer, and because the
defendant had not carried its initial burden of
production of demonstrating that there was no evidence
that there was not a policeman in the lunchroom, we
concluded that summary judgment was inappropriate.
Accordingly, it is surprising to find the case cited by the
majority for the proposition that "there is no issue for
trial unless there is sufficient evidence favoring the
nonmoving party for a jury to return a verdict for that
party." Ante, at 249. There was, of course, no admissible
evidence in Adickes favoring the nonmoving plaintiff;
there was only an [477 U.S. 264] unrebutted assertion
that a Kress employee and a policeman were in the same
room at the time of the alleged constitutional violation.
Like Cities Service, Adickes suggests that on a
defendant's motion for summary judgment, a trial court
must consider whether, as a matter of the substantive
law of the plaintiff's cause of action, a jury will be
permitted to draw inferences supporting the plaintiff's
legal theory. In Cities Service we found, in effect, that
the plaintiff had failed to make out a prima facie case; in
Adickes we held that the moving defendant had failed to
rebut the plaintiff's prima facie case. In neither case is
there any intimation that a trial court should inquire
whether plaintiff's evidence is "significantly probative,"
as opposed to "merely colorable," or, again, "one-sided."
Nor is there is either case any suggestion that once a
nonmoving plaintiff has made out a prima facie case
based on evidence satisfying Rule 56(e) that there is any
showing that a defendant can make to prevail on a
motion for summary judgment. Yet this is what the
Court appears to hold, relying, in part, on these two
cases.
As explained above, and as explained also by JUSTICE
REHNQUIST in his dissent, see post, at 271, I cannot
agree that the authority cited by the Court supports its
position. In my view, the Court's result is the product of
an exercise [477 U.S. 265] akin to the child's game of
"telephone," in which a message is repeated from one
person to another and then another; after some time,
the message bears little resemblance to what was
originally spoken. In the present case, the Court
purports to restate the summary judgment test, but with
each repetition, the original understanding is
increasingly distorted.
But my concern is not only that the Court's decision is
unsupported; after all, unsupported views may
nonetheless be supportable. I am more troubled by the
fact that the Court's opinion sends conflicting signals to
trial courts and reviewing courts which must deal with
summary judgment motions on a day-to-day basis. This
case is about a trial court's responsibility when
considering a motion for summary judgment, but in my
view, the Court, while instructing the trial judge to
"consider" heightened evidentiary standards, fails to
explain what that means. In other words, how does a
judge assess how one-sided evidence is, or what a
"fairminded" jury could "reasonably" decide? The Court
provides conflicting clues to these mysteries, which I
fear can lead only to increased confusion in the district
and appellate courts.
The Court's opinion is replete with boilerplate language
to the effect that trial courts are not to weigh evidence
when deciding summary judgment motions:
"[I]t is clear enough from our recent cases that at the summary
judgment stage the judge's function is not himself to weigh the
evidence and determine the truth of the matter . . . ." Ante, at 249.
"Our holding . . . does not denigrate the role of the jury. . . .
Credibility determinations, the weighing of the evidence, and the
drawing of legitimate inferences from the facts are jury functions,
not those of a judge, whether he is ruling on a motion for summary
judgment or for a directed verdict. The evidence of the nonmovant
is to be believed, and all justifiable inferences are to be drawn in his
favor." Ante, at 255.
[477 U.S. 266] But the Court's opinion is also full of
language which could surely be understood as an
invitation — if not an instruction — to trial courts to
assess and weigh evidence much as a juror would:
"When determining if a genuine factual issue . . . exists. . . , a trial
judge must bear in mind the actual quantum and quality of proof
necessary to support liability. . . . For example, there is no genuine
issue if the evidence presented in the opposing affidavits is of
insufficient caliber or quantity to allow a rational finder of fact to
find actual malice by clear and convincing evidence." Ante, at 254
(emphasis added).
"[T]he inquiry . . . [is] whether the evidence presents a sufficient
disagreement to require submission to a jury or whether it is so
one-sided that one party must prevail as a matter of law." Ante, at
251-252 (emphasis added).
"[T]he judge must ask himself . . . whether a fairminded jury could
return a verdict for the plaintiff on the evidence presented. The
mere existence of a scintilla of evidence in support of the plaintiff's
position will be insufficient; there must be evidence on which the
jury could reasonably find for the plaintiff." Ante, at 252.
I simply cannot square the direction that the judge "is
not himself to weigh the evidence" with the direction
that the judge also bear in mind the "quantum" of proof
required and consider whether the evidence is of
sufficient "caliber or quantity" to meet that "quantum." I
would have thought that a determination of the "caliber
and quantity," i. e., the importance and value, of the
evidence in light of the "quantum," i. e., amount
"required," could only be performed by weighing the
evidence.
If in fact, this is what the Court would, under today's
decision, require of district courts, then I am fearful that
this new rule — for this surely would be a brand new
procedure — will transform what is meant to provide an
expedited "summary" [477 U.S. 267] procedure into a
full-blown paper trial on the merits. It is hard for me to
imagine that a responsible counsel, aware that the judge
will be assessing the "quantum" of the evidence he is
presenting, will risk either moving for or responding to
a summary judgment motion without coming forth with
all of the evidence he can muster in support of his
client's case. Moreover, if the judge on motion for
summary judgment really is to weigh the evidence, then
in my view grave concerns are raised concerning the
constitutional right of civil litigants to a jury trial.
It may well be, as JUSTICE REHNQUIST suggests, see
post, at 270-271, that the Court's decision today will be
of little practical effect. I, for one, cannot imagine a case
in which a judge might plausibly hold that the evidence
on motion for summary judgment was sufficient to
enable a plaintiff bearing a mere preponderance burden
to get to the jury — i. e., that a prima facie case had been
made out — but insufficient for a plaintiff bearing a
clear-and-convincing burden to withstand a defendant's
summary judgment motion. Imagine a suit for breach of
contract. If, for example, the defendant moves for
summary judgment and produces one purported
eyewitness who states that he was present at the time
the parties discussed the possibility of an agreement, and
unequivocally denies that the parties ever agreed to
enter into a contract, while the plaintiff produces one
purported eyewitness who asserts that the parties did in
fact come to terms, presumably that case would go to
the jury. But if the defendant produced not one, but 100
eyewitnesses, while the plaintiff stuck with his single
witness, would that case, under the Court's holding, still
go to the jury? After all, although the plaintiff's burden
in this hypothetical contract action is to prove his case
by a mere preponderance of the evidence, the judge, so
the Court tells us, is to "ask himself . . . whether a fairminded
jury could return a verdict for the plaintiff on
the evidence presented." Ante, at 252. Is there, in this
hypothetical example, "a sufficient disagreement to
require submission [477 U.S. 268] to a jury," or is the
evidence "so one-sided that one party must prevail as a
matter of law"? Ante, at 251-252. Would the result
change if the plaintiff's one witness were now shown to
be a convicted perjurer? Would the result change if,
instead of a garden-variety contract claim, the plaintiff
sued on a fraud theory, thus requiring him to prove his
case by clear and convincing evidence?
It seems to me that the Court's decision today
unpersuasively answers the question presented, and in
doing so raises a host of difficult and troubling questions
for which there may well be no adequate solutions.
What is particularly unfair is that the mess we make is
not, at least in the first instance, our own to deal with; it
is the district courts and courts of appeals that must
struggle to clean up after us.
In my view, if a plaintiff presents evidence which either
directly or by permissible inference (and these
inferences are a product of the substantive law of the
underlying claim) supports all of the elements he needs
to prove in order to prevail on his legal claim, the
plaintiff has made out a prima facie case and a
defendant's motion for summary judgment must fail
regardless of the burden of proof that the plaintiff must
meet. In other words, whether evidence is "clear and
convincing," or proves a point by a mere
preponderance, is for the factfinder to determine. As I
read the case law, this is how it has been, and because of
my concern that today's decision may erode the
constitutionally enshrined role of the jury, and also
undermine the usefulness of summary judgment
procedure, this is how I believe it should remain.