An administrative assistant to the Vice President for
Agriculture of the University of Tennessee conducted a
hearing 
[478 U.S. 800]
 and determined that respondent's
proposed discharge was not racially motivated. The
Court today correctly holds that 28 U. S. C. 
§
 1738 does
not require that this determination by an administrative
assistant be given full faith and credit in subsequent
federal litigation. The Court also correctly refuses to
fashion a federal common-law rule of preclusion that
would bar respondent from litigating his claim against
the University under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964. I agree with these conclusions and therefore join
Parts I, II, and III of the Court's opinion.
In Part IV of its opinion, however, the Court concludes
that the findings of the administrative assistant may bar
respondent's claims under 42 U. S. C. 
§
 1983 and other
of the Reconstruction-era Civil Rights Acts. Although
its reading of the legislative history of the 1964 Civil
Rights Act persuades the Court that it should not
interpose a judicially created bar to the cause of action
authorized by that statute, it creates such a bar to claims
authorized by the earlier Civil Rights Acts without even
mentioning the concerns that prompted their
enactment. As a consequence, the Court's analysis is
incomplete and ultimately unconvincing.
Preclusion of claims brought under the post-Civil War
Acts does not advance the objectives typically associated
with finality or federalism. In the employment setting
which concerns us here, precluding civil rights claims
based on the Reconstruction-era statutes fails to
conserve the resources of either the litigants or the
courts, because the complainant's companion Title VII
claim will still go to federal court under today's
decision.
1 
 Nor does preclusion show respect for 
[478
U.S. 801]
 state administrative determinations, because
litigants apprised of this decision will presumably forgo
state administrative determinations for the same reason
they currently forgo state judicial review of those
determinations — to protect their entitlement to a
federal forum. Cf. Patsy v. Florida Board of Regents, 457
U.S. 496, 532-533 (1982) (POWELL, J., joined by
BURGER, C. J., dissenting) (intimating that litigation of
unreviewed state administrative determinations in
federal court is necessary to encourage exhaustion of
state administrative remedies); Fair Assessment in Real
Estate Assn., Inc. v. McNary, 454 U.S. 100, 136 (1981)
(BRENNAN, J., joined by MARSHALL, STEVENS, and
O'CONNOR, JJ., concurring in judgment) (same);
Moore v. East Cleveland, 431 U.S. 494, 524, n. 2 (1977)
(BURGER, C. J., dissenting) (same).
In support of its view that preclusion is required, the
Court relies on an analogy to its construction of the
Wunderlich Act in United States v. Utah Construction
& Mining Co., 384 U.S. 394 (1966). In my opinion, that
analogy is seriously flawed. In Utah Construction, the
Court held that in a dispute arising under a Government
contract, factual findings by the Board of Contract
Appeals were binding on the Court of Claims. In
support of its dictum that the holding was "harmonious
with general principles of collateral estoppel," id., at 421,
the Court relied on the fact that Congress had 
[478 U.S.
802]
 plainly intended the administrative findings in such
proceedings to be conclusive.
2
The relevant federal statute in this case is the 1871 Civil
Rights Act, not the Wunderlich Act. Needless to say,
there is nothing in the legislative history of the post-
Civil War legislation remotely suggesting that Congress
intended to give binding effect to unreviewed rulings by
state administrators in litigation arising under that
statute. Quite the contrary, as we explained in Monroe
v. Pape, 365 U.S. 167, 180 (1961):
"It is abundantly clear that one reason the legislation was passed
was to afford a federal right in federal courts 
[478 U.S. 803]
 because,
by reason of prejudice, passion, neglect, intolerance or otherwise,
state laws might not be enforced and the claims of citizens to the
enjoyment of rights, privileges, and immunities guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment might be denied by the state agencies."
See Mitchum v. Foster, 407 U.S. 225, 238-239, 242
(1972). Cf. Briscoe v. LaHue, 460 U.S. 325, 338 (1983).
Due respect for the intent of the Congress that enacted
the Civil Rights Act of 1871, as revealed in the
voluminous legislative history of that Act, should
preclude the Court from creating a judge-made rule that
bars access to the express legislative remedy enacted by
Congress.
Accordingly, I respectfully dissent from Part IV of the
Court's opinion.