In this admiralty case we primarily consider whether the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
correctly refused to enforce a forum-selection clause
contained in tickets issued by petitioner Carnival Cruise
Lines, Inc., to respondents Eulala and Russel Shute.
I
The Shutes, through an Arlington, Wash., travel agent,
purchased passage for a 7-day cruise on petitioner's ship,
the Tropicale. Respondents paid the fare to the agent
who forwarded the payment to petitioner's headquarters
in Miami, Fla. Petitioner then prepared the tickets and
sent them to respondents in the State of Washington.
The face of each ticket, at its left-hand lower corner,
contained this admonition:
"SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS OF
CONTRACT ON LAST PAGES
IMPORTANT! PLEASE READ CONTRACT
—ON LAST PAGES 1, 2, 3" App. 15.
The following appeared on "contract page 1" of each
ticket:
"TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PASSAGE
CONTRACT TICKET
. . . . .
"3. (a) The acceptance of this ticket by the person or persons named
hereon as passengers shall be deemed to be an acceptance and
agreement by each of them of all of the terms and conditions of this
Passage Contract Ticket.
. . . . .
"8. It is agreed by and between the passenger and the Carrier that all
disputes and matters whatsoever arising under, in connection with
or incident to this Contract [499 U.S. 588] shall be litigated, if at all,
in and before a Court located in the State of Florida, U. S. A., to the
exclusion of the Courts of any other state or country." Id., at 16.
The last quoted paragraph is the forum-selection clause
at issue.
II
Respondents boarded the Tropicale in Los Angeles, Cal.
The ship sailed to Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, and then
returned to Los Angeles. While the ship was in
international waters off the Mexican coast, respondent
Eulala Shute was injured when she slipped on a deck
mat during a guided tour of the ship's galley.
Respondents filed suit against petitioner in the United
States District Court for the Western District of
Washington, claiming that Mrs. Shute's injuries had
been caused by the negligence of Carnival Cruise Lines
and its employees. Id., at 4.
Petitioner moved for summary judgment, contending
that the forum clause in respondents' tickets required
the Shutes to bring their suit against petitioner in a
court in the State of Florida. Petitioner contended,
alternatively, that the District Court lacked personal
jurisdiction over petitioner because petitioner's contacts
with the State of Washington were insubstantial. The
District Court granted the motion, holding that
petitioner's contacts with Washington were
constitutionally insufficient to support the exercise of
personal jurisdiction. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 60a.
The Court of Appeals reversed. Reasoning that "but for"
petitioner's solicitation of business in Washington,
respondents would not have taken the cruise and Mrs.
Shute would not have been injured, the court concluded
that petitioner had sufficient contacts with Washington
to justify the District Court's exercise of personal
jurisdiction. 897 F.2d 377, 385-386 (CA9 1990).*
[499 U.S. 589] Turning to the forum-selection clause,
the Court of Appeals acknowledged that a court
concerned with the enforceability of such a clause must
begin its analysis with The Bremen v. Zapata Off-Shore
Co., 407 U.S. 1 (1972), where this Court held that
forum-selection clauses, although not "historically. . .
favored," are "prima facie valid." Id., at 9-10. See 897 F.
2d, at 388. The appellate court concluded that the forum
clause should not be enforced because it "was not freely
bargained for." Id., at 389. As an "independent
justification" for refusing to enforce the clause, the
Court of Appeals noted that there was evidence in the
record to indicate that "the Shutes are physically and
financially incapable of pursuing this litigation in
Florida" and that the enforcement of the clause would
operate to deprive them of their day in court and
thereby contravene this Court's holding in The Bremen.
897 F. 2d, at 389.
We granted certiorari to address the question whether
the Court of Appeals was correct in holding that the
District Court should hear respondents' tort claim
against petitioner. 498 U.S. 807-808 (1990). Because we
find the forum-selection clause to be dispositive of this
question, we need not consider petitioner's
constitutional argument as to personal jurisdiction. See
Ashwander v. TVA, 297 U.S. 288, 347 (1936) (Brandeis,
J., concurring) ("`It is not the habit of the Court to
decide questions of a constitutional nature unless [499
U.S. 590] absolutely necessary to a decision of the case,'"
quoting Burton v. United States, 196 U.S. 283, 295
(1905)).
III
We begin by noting the boundaries of our inquiry. First,
this is a case in admiralty, and federal law governs the
enforceability of the forum-selection clause we
scrutinize. See Archawski v. Hanioti, 350 U.S. 532, 533
(1956); The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, 427 (1867); Tr.
of Oral Arg. 36-37, 12, 47-48. Cf. Stewart Organization,
Inc. v. Ricoh Corp., 487 U.S. 22, 28-29 (1988). Second,
we do not address the question whether respondents
had sufficient notice of the forum clause before entering
the contract for passage. Respondents essentially have
conceded that they had notice of the forum-selection
provision. Brief for Respondents 26 ("The respondents
do not contest the incorporation of the provisions nor
[sic] that the forum selection clause was reasonably
communicated to the respondents, as much as three
pages of fine print can be communicated"). Additionally,
the Court of Appeals evaluated the enforceability of the
forum clause under the assumption, although
"doubtful," that respondents could be deemed to have
had knowledge of the clause. See 897 F. 2d, at 389, and
n. 11.
Within this context, respondents urge that the forum
clause should not be enforced because, contrary to this
Court's teachings in The Bremen, the clause was not the
product of negotiation, and enforcement effectively
would deprive respondents of their day in court.
Additionally, respondents contend that the clause
violates the Limitation of Vessel Owner's Liability Act,
46 U. S. C. App. § 183c. We consider these arguments in
turn.
IV
A
Both petitioner and respondents argue vigorously that
the Court's opinion in The Bremen governs this case,
and each side purports to find ample support for its
position in that [499 U.S. 591] opinion's broad-ranging
language. This seeming paradox derives in large part
from key factual differences between this case and The
Bremen, differences that preclude an automatic and
simple application of The Bremen's general principles to
the facts here.
In The Bremen, this Court addressed the enforceability
of a forum-selection clause in a contract between two
business corporations. An American corporation,
Zapata, made a contract with Unterweser, a German
corporation, for the towage of Zapata's oceangoing
drilling rig from Louisiana to a point in the Adriatic Sea
off the coast of Italy. The agreement provided that any
dispute arising under the contract was to be resolved in
the London Court of Justice. After a storm in the Gulf of
Mexico seriously damaged the rig, Zapata ordered
Unterweser's ship to tow the rig to Tampa, Fla., the
nearest point of refuge. Thereafter, Zapata sued
Unterweser in admiralty in federal court at Tampa.
Citing the forum clause, Unterweser moved to dismiss.
The District Court denied Unterweser's motion, and the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, sitting en banc on
rehearing, and by a sharply divided vote, affirmed. In re
Complaint of Unterweser Reederei, GmBH, 446 F.2d
907 (1971).
This Court vacated and remanded, stating that, in
general, "a freely negotiated private international
agreement, unaffected by fraud, undue influence, or
overweening bargaining power, such as that involved
here, should be given full effect." 407 U. S., at 12-13
(footnote omitted). The Court further generalized that
"in the light of present-day commercial realities and
expanding international trade we conclude that the
forum clause should control absent a strong showing
that it should be set aside." Id., at 15. The Court did not
define precisely the circumstances that would make it
unreasonable for a court to enforce a forum clause.
Instead, the Court discussed a number of factors that
made it reasonable to enforce the clause at issue in The
Bremen and [499 U.S. 592] that, presumably, would be
pertinent in any determination whether to enforce a
similar clause.
In this respect, the Court noted that there was "strong
evidence that the forum clause was a vital part of the
agreement, and [that] it would be unrealistic to think
that the parties did not conduct their negotiations,
including fixing the monetary terms, with the
consequences of the forum clause figuring prominently
in their calculations." Id., at 14 (footnote omitted).
Further, the Court observed that it was not "dealing
with an agreement between two Americans to resolve
their essentially local disputes in a remote alien forum,"
and that in such a case, "the serious inconvenience of the
contractual forum to one or both of the parties might
carry greater weight in determining the reasonableness
of the forum clause." Id., at 17. The Court stated that
even where the forum clause establishes a remote forum
for resolution of conflicts, "the party claiming
[unfairness] should bear a heavy burden of proof." Ibid.
In applying The Bremen, the Court of Appeals in the
present litigation took note of the foregoing
"reasonableness" factors and rather automatically
decided that the forum-selection clause was
unenforceable because, unlike the parties in The
Bremen, respondents are not business persons and did
not negotiate the terms of the clause with petitioner.
Alternatively, the Court of Appeals ruled that the clause
should not be enforced because enforcement effectively
would deprive respondents of an opportunity to litigate
their claim against petitioner.
The Bremen concerned a "far from routine transaction
between companies of two different nations
contemplating the tow of an extremely costly piece of
equipment from Louisiana across the Gulf of Mexico
and the Atlantic Ocean, through the Mediterranean Sea
to its final destination in the Adriatic Sea." Id., at 13.
These facts suggest that, even apart from the evidence of
negotiation regarding the forum clause, it was entirely
reasonable for the Court in The [499 U.S. 593] Bremen
to have expected Unterweser and Zapata to have
negotiated with care in selecting a forum for the
resolution of disputes arising from their special towing
contract.
In contrast, respondents' passage contract was purely
routine and doubtless nearly identical to every
commercial passage contract issued by petitioner and
most other cruise lines. See, e. g., Hodes v. S. N. C.
Achille Lauro ed Altri-Gestione, 858 F.2d 905, 910 (CA3
1988), cert. dism'd, 490 U.S. 1001 (1989). In this context,
it would be entirely unreasonable for us to assume that
respondents—or any other cruise passenger—would
negotiate with petitioner the terms of a forum-selection
clause in an ordinary commercial cruise ticket. Common
sense dictates that a ticket of this kind will be a form
contract the terms of which are not subject to
negotiation, and that an individual purchasing the ticket
will not have bargaining parity with the cruise line. But
by ignoring the crucial differences in the business
contexts in which the respective contracts were
executed, the Court of Appeals' analysis seems to us to
have distorted somewhat this Court's holding in The
Bremen.
In evaluating the reasonableness of the forum clause at
issue in this case, we must refine the analysis of The
Bremen to account for the realities of form passage
contracts. As an initial matter, we do not adopt the
Court of Appeals' determination that a nonnegotiated
forum-selection clause in a form ticket contract is never
enforceable simply because it is not the subject of
bargaining. Including a reasonable forum clause in a
form contract of this kind well may be permissible for
several reasons: First, a cruise line has a special interest
in limiting the fora in which it potentially could be
subject to suit. Because a cruise ship typically carries
passengers from many locales, it is not unlikely that a
mishap on a cruise could subject the cruise line to
litigation in several different fora. See The Bremen, 407
U. S., at 13, and n. 15; Hodes, 858 F. 2d, at 913.
Additionally, a clause establishing ex ante the forum for
dispute resolution has the salutary [499 U.S. 594] effect
of dispelling any confusion about where suits arising
from the contract must be brought and defended,
sparing litigants the time and expense of pretrial
motions to determine the correct forum and conserving
judicial resources that otherwise would be devoted to
deciding those motions. See Stewart Organization, 487
U. S., at 33 (concurring opinion). Finally, it stands to
reason that passengers who purchase tickets containing
a forum clause like that at issue in this case benefit in the
form of reduced fares reflecting the savings that the
cruise line enjoys by limiting the fora in which it may be
sued. Cf. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co. v. Donovan, 916
F.2d 372, 378 (CA7 1990).
We also do not accept the Court of Appeals'
"independent justification" for its conclusion that The
Bremen dictates that the clause should not be enforced
because "[t]here is evidence in the record to indicate
that the Shutes are physically and financially incapable
of pursuing this litigation in Florida." 897 F. 2d, at 389.
We do not defer to the Court of Appeals' findings of
fact. In dismissing the case for lack of personal
jurisdiction over petitioner, the District Court made no
finding regarding the physical and financial
impediments to the Shutes' pursuing their case in
Florida. The Court of Appeals' conclusory reference to
the record provides no basis for this Court to validate
the finding of inconvenience. Furthermore, the Court of
Appeals did not place in proper context this Court's
statement in The Bremen that "the serious
inconvenience of the contractual forum to one or both
of the parties might carry greater weight in determining
the reasonableness of the forum clause." 407 U. S., at 17.
The Court made this statement in evaluating a
hypothetical "agreement between two Americans to
resolve their essentially local disputes in a remote alien
forum." Ibid. In the present case, Florida is not a
"remote alien forum," nor—given the fact that Mrs.
Shute's accident occurred off the coast of Mexico— is
this dispute an essentially local one inherently more
suited to resolution in the State of Washington than in
Florida. In [499 U.S. 595] light of these distinctions, and
because respondents do not claim lack of notice of the
forum clause, we conclude that they have not satisfied
the "heavy burden of proof," ibid., required to set aside
the clause on grounds of inconvenience.
It bears emphasis that forum-selection clauses contained
in form passage contracts are subject to judicial scrutiny
for fundamental fairness. In this case, there is no
indication that petitioner set Florida as the forum in
which disputes were to be resolved as a means of
discouraging cruise passengers from pursuing legitimate
claims. Any suggestion of such a bad-faith motive is
belied by two facts: Petitioner has its principal place of
business in Florida, and many of its cruises depart from
and return to Florida ports. Similarly, there is no
evidence that petitioner obtained respondents' accession
to the forum clause by fraud or overreaching. Finally,
respondents have conceded that they were given notice
of the forum provision and, therefore, presumably
retained the option of rejecting the contract with
impunity. In the case before us, therefore, we conclude
that the Court of Appeals erred in refusing to enforce
the forum-selection clause.
B
Respondents also contend that the forum-selection
clause at issue violates 46 U. S. C. App. § 183c. That
statute, enacted in 1936, see ch. 521, 49 Stat. 1480,
provides:
"It shall be unlawful for the . . . owner of any vessel transporting
passengers between ports of the United States or between any such
port and a foreign port to insert in any rule, regulation, contract, or
agreement any provision or limitation (1) purporting, in the event
of loss of life or bodily injury arising from the negligence or fault of
such owner or his servants, to relieve such owner . . . from liability,
or from liability beyond any stipulated amount, for such loss or
injury, or (2) purporting in such event to lessen, weaken, or avoid
the right of any claimant to a trial by court of competent [499 U.S.
596] jurisdiction on the question of liability for such loss or injury,
or the measure of damages therefor. All such provisions or
limitations contained in any such rule, regulation, contract, or
agreement are hereby declared to be against public policy and shall
be null and void and of no effect."
By its plain language, the forum-selection clause before
us does not take away respondents' right to "a trial by [a]
court of competent jurisdiction" and thereby contravene
the explicit proscription of § 183c. Instead, the clause
states specifically that actions arising out of the passage
contract shall be brought "if at all," in a court "located in
the State of Florida," which, plainly, is a "court of
competent jurisdiction" within the meaning of the
statute.
Respondents appear to acknowledge this by asserting
that although the forum clause does not directly prevent
the determination of claims against the cruise line, it
causes plaintiffs unreasonable hardship in asserting their
rights and therefore violates Congress' intended goal in
enacting § 183c. Significantly, however, respondents
cite no authority for their contention that Congress'
intent in enacting § 183c was to avoid having a plaintiff
travel to a distant forum in order to litigate. The
legislative history of § 183c suggests instead that this
provision was enacted in response to passenger-ticket
conditions purporting to limit the shipowner's liability
for negligence or to remove the issue of liability from
the scrutiny of any court by means of a clause providing
that "the question of liability and the measure of
damages shall be determined by arbitration." See S. Rep.
No. 2061, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., 6 (1936); H. R. Rep. No.
2517, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., 6 (1936). See also Safety of
Life and Property at Sea: Hearings before the House
Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, 74th
Cong., 2d Sess., pt. 4, pp. 20, 36-37, 57, 109-110, 119
(1936). There was no prohibition of a forum-selection
clause. Because the clause before us allows for judicial
resolution of claims against petitioner and does [499 U.S.
597] not purport to limit petitioner's liability for
negligence, it does not violate § 183c.
V
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.