This case requires us to determine whether a state
statute that authorizes prejudgment attachment of real
estate without prior notice or hearing, without a
showing of extraordinary circumstances, and without a
requirement that the person seeking the attachment
post a bond, satisfies the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. We hold that, as applied to
this case, it does not.
[501 U.S. 5] I
On March 15, 1988, petitioner John F. DiGiovanni
submitted an application to the Connecticut Superior
Court for an attachment in the amount of $75,000 on
respondent Brian K. Doehr's home in Meriden,
Connecticut. DiGiovanni took this step in conjunction
with a civil action for assault and battery that he was
seeking to institute against Doehr in the same court.
The suit did not involve Doehr's real estate, nor did
DiGiovanni have any pre-existing interest either in
Doehr's home or any of his other property.
Connecticut law authorizes prejudgment attachment of
real estate without affording prior notice or the
opportunity for a prior hearing to the individual whose
property is subject to the attachment. The State's
prejudgment remedy statute provides, in relevant part:
"The court or a judge of the court may allow the prejudgment
remedy to be issued by an attorney without hearing as provided in
sections 52-278c and 52-278d upon verification by oath of the
plaintiff or of some competent affiant, that there is probable cause
to sustain the validity of the plaintiff's claims and (1) that the
prejudgment remedy requested is for an attachment of real property
. . . ." Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-278e (1991).1
[501 U.S. 6] The statute does not require the plaintiff to
post a bond to insure the payment of damages that the
defendant may suffer should the attachment prove
wrongfully issued or the claim prove unsuccessful.
As required, DiGiovanni submitted an affidavit in
support of his application. In five one-sentence
paragraphs, DiGiovanni stated that the facts set forth in
his previously submitted complaint were true; that "I
was willfully, wantonly and maliciously assaulted by the
defendant, Brian K. Doehr"; that "[s]aid assault and
battery broke my left wrist and further caused an
ecchymosis to my right eye, as well as other injuries";
and that "I have further expended sums of money [501
U.S. 7] for medical care and treatment." App. 24A. The
affidavit concluded with the statement, "In my opinion,
the foregoing facts are sufficient to show that there is
probable cause that judgment will be rendered for the
plaintiff." Ibid.
On the strength of these submissions the Superior Court
Judge, by an order dated March 17, found "probable
cause to sustain the validity of the plaintiff's claim" and
ordered the attachment on Doehr's home "to the value
of $75,000." The sheriff attached the property four days
later, on March 21. Only after this did Doehr receive
notice of the attachment. He also had yet to be served
with the complaint, which is ordinarily necessary for an
action to commence in Connecticut. Young v.
Margiotta, 136 Conn. 429, 433, 71 A.2d 924, 926 (1950).
As the statute further required, the attachment notice
informed Doehr that he had the right to a hearing: (1) to
claim that no probable cause existed to sustain the claim;
(2) to request that the attachment be vacated, modified,
or dismissed or that a bond be substituted; or (3) to
claim that some portion of the property was exempt
from execution. Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-278e(b) (1991).
Rather than pursue these options, Doehr filed suit
against DiGiovanni in Federal District Court, claiming
that § 52-278e (a)(1) was unconstitutional under the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.2
The District Court upheld the statute and granted
summary judgment in favor of DiGiovanni. Pinsky v.
Duncan, 716 F.Supp. 58 (Conn. 1989). On appeal, a
divided panel of the United States Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit reversed. Pinsky v. Duncan, 898 F.2d
852 (1990).3 Judge Pratt, who wrote the opinion [501
U.S. 8] for the court, concluded that the Connecticut
statute violated due process in permitting ex parte
attachment absent a showing of extraordinary
circumstances. "The rule to be derived from Sniadach v.
Family Finance Corp. of Bay View, 395 U.S. 337 (1969),
and its progeny, therefore, is not that postattachment
hearings are generally acceptable provided that plaintiff
files a factual affidavit and that a judicial officer
supervises the process, but that a prior hearing may be
postponed where exceptional circumstances justify such
a delay, and where sufficient additional safeguards are
present." Id., at 855. This conclusion was deemed to be
consistent with our decision in Mitchell v. W. T. Grant
Co., 416 U.S. 600 (1974), because the absence of a
preattachment hearing was approved in that case based
on the presence of extraordinary circumstances.
A further reason to invalidate the statute, the court
ruled, was the highly factual nature of the issues in this
case. In Mitchell, there were "uncomplicated matters
that len[t] themselves to documentary proof" and "[t]he
nature of the issues at stake minimize[d] the risk that
the writ [would] be wrongfully issued by a judge." Id., at
609-610. Similarly, in Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S.
319, 343-344 (1976), where an evidentiary hearing was
not required prior to the termination of disability
benefits, the determination of disability was "sharply
focused and easily documented." Judge Pratt observed
that in contrast the present case involved the factspecific
event of a fist fight and the issue of assault. He
doubted that the judge could reliably determine probable
cause when presented with only the plaintiff's version of
the altercation. "Because the risk of a wrongful
attachment is considerable under these circumstances,
we conclude that dispensing with notice and
opportunity for a hearing until after the attachment,
without a showing of extraordinary circumstances,
violates the requirements of due process." 898 F. 2d, at
856. Judge Pratt went on to conclude that in his view,
the statute was also constitutionally infirm for its failure
[501 U.S. 9] to require the plaintiff to post a bond for the
protection of the defendant in the event the attachment
was ultimately found to have been improvident.
Judge Mahoney was also of the opinion that the
statutory provision for attaching real property in civil
actions, without a prior hearing and in the absence of
extraordinary circumstances, was unconstitutional. He
disagreed with Judge Pratt's opinion that a bond was
constitutionally required. Judge Newman dissented from
the holding that a hearing prior to attachment was
constitutionally required and, like Judge Mahoney,
disagreed with Judge Pratt on the necessity for a bond.
The dissent's conclusion accorded with the views of the
Connecticut Supreme Court, which had previously
upheld § 52-278e(b) in Fermont Division, Dynamics
Corp. of America v. Smith, 178 Conn. 393, 423 A.2d 80
(1979). We granted certiorari to resolve the conflict of
authority. 498 U.S. 809 (1990).
II
With this case we return to the question of what process
must be afforded by a state statute enabling an
individual to enlist the aid of the State to deprive
another of his or her property by means of the
prejudgment attachment or similar procedure. Our cases
reflect the numerous variations this type of remedy can
entail. In Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp. of Bay View,
395 U.S. 337 (1969), the Court struck down a
Wisconsin statute that permitted a creditor to effect
prejudgment garnishment of wages without notice and
prior hearing to the wage earner. In Fuentes v. Shevin,
407 U.S. 67 (1972), the Court likewise found a due
process violation in state replevin provisions that
permitted vendors to have goods seized through an ex
parte application to a court clerk and the posting of a
bond. Conversely, the Court upheld a Louisiana ex parte
procedure allowing a lienholder to have disputed goods
sequestered in Mitchell v. W. T. Grant Co., supra.
Mitchell, however, carefully noted that Fuentes was [501
U.S. 10] decided against "a factual and legal background
sufficiently different . . . that it does not require the
invalidation of the Louisiana sequestration statute." Id.,
at 615. Those differences included Louisiana's provision
of an immediate postdeprivation hearing along with the
option of damages; the requirement that a judge rather
than a clerk determine that there is a clear showing of
entitlement to the writ; the necessity for a detailed
affidavit; and an emphasis on the lienholder's interest in
preventing waste or alienation of the encumbered
property. Id., at 615-618. In North Georgia Finishing,
Inc. v. Di-Chem, Inc., 419 U.S. 601 (1975), the Court
again invalidated an ex parte garnishment statute that
not only failed to provide for notice and prior hearing
but also failed to require a bond, a detailed affidavit
setting out the claim, the determination of a neutral
magistrate, or a prompt postdeprivation hearing. Id., at
606-608.
These cases "underscore the truism that `"[d]ue
process," unlike some legal rules, is not a technical
conception with a fixed content unrelated to time, place
and circumstances.'" Mathews v. Eldridge, supra, at 334
(quoting Cafeteria & Restaurant Workers v. McElroy,
367 U.S. 886, 895 (1961)). In Mathews, we drew upon
our prejudgment remedy decisions to determine what
process is due when the government itself seeks to effect
a deprivation on its own initiative. 424 U. S., at 334.
That analysis resulted in the now familiar threefold
inquiry requiring consideration of "the private interest
that will be affected by the official action"; "the risk of an
erroneous deprivation of such interest through the
procedures used, and the probable value, if any, of
additional or substitute safeguards"; and lastly "the
Government's interest, including the function involved
and the fiscal and administrative burdens that the
additional or substitute procedural requirement would
entail." Id., at 335.
Here the inquiry is similar, but the focus is different.
Prejudgment remedy statutes ordinarily apply to
disputes between private parties rather than between an
individual and [501 U.S. 11] the government. Such
enactments are designed to enable one of the parties to
"make use of state procedures with the overt, significant
assistance of state officials," and they undoubtedly
involve state action "substantial enough to implicate the
Due Process Clause." Tulsa Professional Collection
Services, Inc. v. Pope, 485 U.S. 478, 486 (1988).
Nonetheless, any burden that increasing procedural
safeguards entails primarily affects not the government,
but the party seeking control of the other's property. See
Fuentes v. Shevin, supra, at 99-101 (WHITE, J.,
dissenting). For this type of case, therefore, the relevant
inquiry requires, as in Mathews, first, consideration of
the private interest that will be affected by the
prejudgment measure; second, an examination of the
risk of erroneous deprivation through the procedures
under attack and the probable value of additional or
alternative safeguards; and third, in contrast to
Mathews, principal attention to the interest of the party
seeking the prejudgment remedy, with, nonetheless, due
regard for any ancillary interest the government may
have in providing the procedure or forgoing the added
burden of providing greater protections.
We now consider the Mathews factors in determining
the adequacy of the procedures before us, first with
regard to the safeguards of notice and a prior hearing,
and then in relation to the protection of a bond.
III
We agree with the Court of Appeals that the property
interests that attachment affects are significant. For a
property owner like Doehr, attachment ordinarily
clouds title; impairs the ability to sell or otherwise
alienate the property; taints any credit rating; reduces
the chance of obtaining a home equity loan or additional
mortgage; and can even place an existing mortgage in
technical default where there is an insecurity clause. Nor
does Connecticut deny that any of these consequences
occurs.
[501 U.S. 12] Instead, the State correctly points out that
these effects do not amount to a complete, physical, or
permanent deprivation of real property; their impact is
less than the perhaps temporary total deprivation of
household goods or wages. See Sniadach, supra, at 340;
Mitchell, 416 U. S., at 613. But the Court has never held
that only such extreme deprivations trigger due process
concern. See Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U.S. 60, 74
(1917). To the contrary, our cases show that even the
temporary or partial impairments to property rights that
attachments, liens, and similar encumbrances entail are
sufficient to merit due process protection. Without
doubt, state procedures for creating and enforcing
attachments, as with liens, "are subject to the strictures
of due process." Peralta v. Heights Medical Center, Inc.,
485 U.S. 80, 85 (1988) (citing Mitchell, supra, at 604;
Hodge v. Muscatine County, 196 U.S. 276, 281 (1905)).4
We also agree with the Court of Appeals that the risk of
erroneous deprivation that the State permits here is
substantial. By definition, attachment statutes premise a
deprivation of property on one ultimate factual
contingency—the award of damages to the plaintiff
which the defendant may not be able to satisfy. See
Ownbey v. Morgan, 256 U.S. 94, 104-105 (1921); R.
Thompson & J. Sebert, Remedies: Damages, Equity and
Restitution § 5.01 (1983). For attachments [501 U.S. 13]
before judgment, Connecticut mandates that this
determination be made by means of a procedural inquiry
that asks whether "there is probable cause to sustain the
validity of the plaintiff's claim." Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-
278e(a) (1991). The statute elsewhere defines the
validity of the claim in terms of the likelihood "that
judgment will be rendered in the matter in favor of the
plaintiff." Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-278c(a)(2) (1991);
Ledgebrook Condominium Assn. v. Lusk Corp., 172
Conn. 577, 584, 376 A.2d 60, 63-64 (1977). What
probable cause means in this context, however, remains
obscure. The State initially took the position, as did the
dissent below, that the statute requires a plaintiff to
show the objective likelihood of the suit's success. Brief
for Petitioners 12; Pinsky, 898 F. 2d, at 861-862
(Newman, J., dissenting). Doehr, citing ambiguous state
cases, reads the provision as requiring no more than that
a plaintiff demonstrate a subjective good-faith belief that
the suit will succeed. Brief for Respondent 25-26.
Ledgebrook Condominium Assn., supra, at 584, 376 A.
2d, at 63-64; Anderson v. Nedovich, 19 Conn.App. 85,
88, 561 A.2d 948, 949 (1989). At oral argument, the
State shifted its position to argue that the statute
requires something akin to the plaintiff stating a claim
with sufficient facts to survive a motion to dismiss.
We need not resolve this confusion since the statute
presents too great a risk of erroneous deprivation under
any of these interpretations. If the statute demands
inquiry into the sufficiency of the complaint, or, still
less, the plaintiff's good-faith belief that the complaint is
sufficient, requirement of a complaint and a factual
affidavit would permit a court to make these minimal
determinations. But neither inquiry adequately reduces
the risk of erroneous deprivation. Permitting a court to
authorize attachment merely because the plaintiff
believes the defendant is liable, or because the plaintiff
can make out a facially valid complaint, would permit
the deprivation of the defendant's property when the
claim would fail to convince a jury, when it rested on
factual allegations [501 U.S. 14] that were sufficient to
state a cause of action but which the defendant would
dispute, or in the case of a mere good-faith standard,
even when the complaint failed to state a claim upon
which relief could be granted. The potential for
unwarranted attachment in these situations is selfevident
and too great to satisfy the requirements of due
process absent any countervailing consideration.
Even if the provision requires the plaintiff to
demonstrate, and the judge to find, probable cause to
believe that judgment will be rendered in favor of the
plaintiff, the risk of error was substantial in this case. As
the record shows, and as the State concedes, only a
skeletal affidavit need be, and was, filed. The State urges
that the reviewing judge normally reviews the
complaint as well, but concedes that the complaint may
also be conclusory. It is self-evident that the judge could
make no realistic assessment concerning the likelihood
of an action's success based upon these one-sided, selfserving,
and conclusory submissions. And as the Court
of Appeals said, in a case like this involving an alleged
assault, even a detailed affidavit would give only the
plaintiff's version of the confrontation. Unlike
determining the existence of a debt or delinquent
payments, the issue does not concern "ordinarily
uncomplicated matters that lend themselves to
documentary proof." Mitchell, 416 U. S., at 609. The
likelihood of error that results illustrates that "fairness
can rarely be obtained by secret, one-sided
determination of facts decisive of rights . . . . [And n]o
better instrument has been devised for arriving at truth
than to give a person in jeopardy of serious loss notice
of the case against him and opportunity to meet it." Joint
Anti-Fascist Refugee Comm. v. McGrath, 341 U.S. 123,
170-172 (1951) (Frankfurter, J., concurring).
What safeguards the State does afford do not adequately
reduce this risk. Connecticut points out that the statute
also provides an "expeditiou[s]" postattachment
adversary hearing, [501 U.S. 15] § 52-278e(c);5 notice for
such a hearing, § 52-278e(b); judicial review of an
adverse decision, § 52-2781(a); and a double damages
action if the original suit is commenced without
probable cause, § 52-568(a)(1). Similar considerations
were present in Mitchell, where we upheld Louisiana's
sequestration statute despite the lack of predeprivation
notice and hearing. But in Mitchell, the plaintiff had a
vendor's lien to protect, the risk of error was minimal
because the likelihood of recovery involved
uncomplicated matters that lent themselves to
documentary proof, 416 U. S., at 609-610, and the
plaintiff was required to put up a bond. None of these
factors diminishing the need for a predeprivation
hearing is present in this case. It is true that a later
hearing might negate the presence of probable cause,
but this would not cure the temporary deprivation that
an earlier hearing might have prevented. "The
Fourteenth Amendment draws no bright lines around
three-day, 10-day or 50-day deprivations of property.
Any significant taking of property by the State is within
the purview of the Due Process Clause." Fuentes, 407 U.
S., at 86.
[501 U.S. 16] Finally, we conclude that the interests in
favor of an ex parte attachment, particularly the
interests of the plaintiff, are too minimal to supply such
a consideration here. The plaintiff had no existing
interest in Doehr's real estate when he sought the
attachment. His only interest in attaching the property
was to ensure the availability of assets to satisfy his
judgment if he prevailed on the merits of his action. Yet
there was no allegation that Doehr was about to transfer
or encumber his real estate or take any other action
during the pendency of the action that would render his
real estate unavailable to satisfy a judgment. Our cases
have recognized such a properly supported claim would
be an exigent circumstance permitting postponing any
notice or hearing until after the attachment is effected.
See Mitchell, supra, at 609; Fuentes, supra, at 90-92;
Sniadach, 395 U. S., at 339. Absent such allegations,
however, the plaintiff's interest in attaching the
property does not justify the burdening of Doehr's
ownership rights without a hearing to determine the
likelihood of recovery.
No interest the government may have affects the
analysis. The State's substantive interest in protecting
any rights of the plaintiff cannot be any more weighty
than those rights themselves. Here the plaintiff's interest
is de minimis. Moreover, the State cannot seriously
plead additional financial or administrative burdens
involving predeprivation hearings when it already
claims to provide an immediate postdeprivation hearing.
Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 52-278e(b) and (c) (1991); Fermont,
178 Conn., at 397-398, 423 A. 2d, at 83.
Historical and contemporary practices support our
analysis. Prejudgment attachment is a remedy unknown
at common law. Instead, "it traces its origin to the
Custom of London, under which a creditor might attach
money or goods of the defendant either in the plaintiff's
own hands or in the custody of a third person, by
proceedings in the mayor's court or in the sheriff's
court." Ownbey, 256 U. S., at 104. Generally speaking,
attachment measures in both England and this [501 U.S.
17] country had several limitations that reduced the risk
of erroneous deprivation which Connecticut permits.
Although attachments ordinarily did not require prior
notice or a hearing, they were usually authorized only
where the defendant had taken or threatened to take
some action that would place the satisfaction of the
plaintiff's potential award in jeopardy. See C. Drake,
Law of Suits by Attachment, §§ 40-82 (1866)
(hereinafter Drake); 1 R. Shinn, Attachment and
Garnishment § 86 (1896) (hereinafter Shinn).
Attachments, moreover, were generally confined to
claims by creditors. Drake §§ 9-10; Shinn § 12. As we
and the Court of Appeals have noted, disputes between
debtors and creditors more readily lend themselves to
accurate ex parte assessments of the merits. Tort
actions, like the assault and battery claim at issue here,
do not. See Mitchell, supra, at 609-610. Finally, as we
will discuss below, attachment statutes historically
required that the plaintiff post a bond. Drake §§ 114-
183; Shinn § 153.
Connecticut's statute appears even more suspect in light
of current practice. A survey of state attachment
provisions reveals that nearly every State requires either
a preattachment hearing, a showing of some exigent
circumstance, or both, before permitting an attachment
to take place. See Appendix to this opinion. Twentyseven
States, as well as the District of Columbia, permit
attachments only when some extraordinary
circumstance is present. In such cases, preattachment
hearings are not required but postattachment hearings
are provided. Ten States permit attachment without the
presence of such factors but require prewrit hearings
unless one of those factors is shown. Six States limit
attachments to extraordinary circumstance cases, but the
writ will not issue prior to a hearing unless there is a
showing of some even more compelling condition.6
Three States always require a [501 U.S. 18]
preattachment hearing. Only Washington, Connecticut,
and Rhode Island authorize attachments without a prior
hearing in situations that do not involve any
purportedly heightened threat to the plaintiff's interests.
Even those States permit ex parte deprivations only in
certain types of cases: Rhode Island does so only when
the claim is equitable; Connecticut and Washington do
so only when real estate is to be attached, and even
Washington requires a bond. Conversely, the States for
the most part no longer confine attachments to creditor
claims. This development, however, only increases the
importance of the other limitations.
We do not mean to imply that any given exigency
requirement protects an attachment from constitutional
attack. Nor do we suggest that the statutory measures
we have surveyed are necessarily free of due process
problems or other constitutional infirmities in general.
We do believe, however, that the procedures of almost
all the States confirm our view that the Connecticut
provision before us, by failing to provide a
preattachment hearing without at least requiring a
showing of some exigent circumstance, clearly falls
short of the demands of due process.
IV
A
Although a majority of the Court does not reach the
issue, JUSTICES MARSHALL, STEVENS,
O'CONNOR, and I deem it appropriate to consider
whether due process also requires the plaintiff to post a
bond or other security in addition to requiring a hearing
or showing of some exigency.7
[501 U.S. 19] As noted, the impairments to property
rights that attachments effect merit due process
protection. Several consequences can be severe, such as
the default of a homeowner's mortgage. In the present
context, it need only be added that we have repeatedly
recognized the utility of a bond in protecting property
rights affected by the mistaken award of prejudgment
remedies. Di-Chem, 419 U. S., at 610, 611 (Powell, J.,
concurring in judgment); id., at 619 (BLACKMUN, J.,
dissenting); Mitchell, 416 U. S., at 606, n. 8.
Without a bond, at the time of attachment, the danger
that these property rights may be wrongfully deprived
remains unacceptably high even with such safegnards as
a hearing or exigency requirement. The need for a bond
is especially apparent where extraordinary
circumstances justify an attachment with no more than
the plaintiff's ex parte assertion of a claim. We have
already discussed how due process tolerates, and the
States generally permit, the otherwise impermissible
chance of erroneously depriving the defendant in such
situations in light of the heightened interest of the
plaintiff. Until a postattachment hearing, however, a
defendant has no protection against damages sustained
where no extraordinary circumstance in fact existed or
the plaintiff's likelihood of recovery was nil. Such
protection is what a bond can supply. Both the Court
and its individual Members have repeatedly found the
requirement of a bond to play an essential role in
reducing what would have been too great a degree of
risk in precisely this type of circumstance. Mitchell, [501
U.S. 20] supra, at 610, 619; Di-Chem, 419 U. S., at 613
(Powell, J., concurring in judgment); id., at 619
(BLACKMUN, J., dissenting); Fuentes, 407 U. S., at 101
(WHITE, J., dissenting).
But the need for a bond does not end here. A
defendant's property rights remain at undue risk even
when there has been an adversarial hearing to
determine the plaintiff's likelihood of recovery. At best,
a court's initial assessment of each party's case cannot
produce more than an educated prediction as to who
will win. This is especially true when, as here, the nature
of the claim makes any accurate prediction elusive. See
Mitchell, supra, at 609-610. In consequence, even a full
hearing under a proper probable-cause standard would
not prevent many defendants from having title to their
homes impaired during the pendency of suits that never
result in the contingency that ultimately justifies such
impairment, namely, an award to the plaintiff.
Attachment measures currently on the books reflect this
concern. All but a handful of States require a plaintiff's
bond despite also affording a hearing either before, or
(for the vast majority, only under extraordinary
circumstances) soon after, an attachment takes place.
See Appendix to this opinion. Bonds have been a
similarly common feature of other prejudgment remedy
procedures that we have considered, whether or not
these procedures also included a hearing. See Ownbey,
256 U. S., at 101-102, n. 1; Fuentes, supra, at 73, n. 6,
75-76, n. 7, 81-82; Mitchell, supra, at 606, and n. 6;
DiChem, supra, at 602-603, n. 1, 608.
The State stresses its double damages remedy for suits
that are commenced without probable cause. Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 52-568(a)(1).8 This remedy, however, fails
to make [501 U.S. 21] up for the lack of a bond. As an
initial matter, the meaning of "probable cause" in this
provision is no more clear here than it was in the
attachment provision itself. Should the term mean the
plaintiff's good faith or the facial adequacy of the
complaint, the remedy is clearly insufficient. A
defendant who was deprived where there was little or
no likelihood that the plaintiff would obtain a judgment
could nonetheless recover only by proving some type of
fraud or malice or by showing that the plaintiff had
failed to state a claim. Problems persist even if the
plaintiff's ultimate failure permits recovery. At best a
defendant must await a decision on the merits of the
plaintiff's complaint, even assuming that a § 52-
568(a)(1) action may be brought as a counterclaim.
Hydro Air of Connecticut, Inc. v. Versa Technologies,
Inc., 99 F. R. D. 111, 113 (Conn. 1983). Settlement,
under Connecticut law, precludes seeking the damages
remedy, a fact that encourages the use of attachments as
a tactical device to pressure an opponent to capitulate.
Blake v. Levy, 191 Conn. 257, 464 A.2d 52 (1983). An
attorney's advice that there is probable cause to
commence an action constitutes a complete defense,
even if the advice was unsound or erroneous.
Vandersluis v. Weil, 176 Conn. 353, 361, 407 A.2d 982,
987 (1978). Finally, there is no guarantee that the
original plaintiff will have adequate assets to satisfy an
award that the defendant may win.
Nor is there any appreciable interest against a bond
requirement. Section 52-278e(a)(1) does not require a
plaintiff to show exigent circumstances nor any preexisting
interest in the property facing attachment. A
party must show more than the mere existence of a
claim before subjecting an opponent to prejudgment
proceedings that carry a significant risk of erroneous
deprivation. See Mitchell, supra, at 604-609; Fuentes,
supra, at 90-92; Sniadach, 395 U. S., at 339.
[501 U.S. 22] B
Our foregoing discussion compels the four of us to
consider whether a bond excuses the need for a hearing
or other safeguards altogether. If a bond is needed to
augment the protections afforded by preattachment and
postattachment hearings, it arguably follows that a bond
renders these safeguards unnecessary. That conclusion is
unconvincing, however, for it ignores certain harms
that bonds could not undo but that hearings would
prevent. The law concerning attachments has rarely, if
ever, required defendants to suffer an encumbered title
until the case is concluded without any prior
opportunity to show that the attachment was
unwarranted. Our cases have repeatedly emphasized the
importance of providing a prompt postdeprivation
hearing at the very least. Mitchell, 416 U. S., at 606; DiChem,
419 U. S., at 606-607. Every State but one,
moreover, expressly requires a preattachment or
postattachment hearing to determine the propriety of an
attachment.
The necessity for at least a prompt postattachment
hearing is self-evident because the right to be
compensated at the end of the case, if the plaintiff loses,
for all provable injuries caused by the attachment is
inadequate to redress the harm inflicted, harm that
could have been avoided had an early hearing been held.
An individual with an immediate need or opportunity to
sell a property can neither do so, nor otherwise satisfy
that need or recreate the opportunity. The same applies
to a parent in need of a home equity loan for a child's
education, an entrepreneur seeking to start a business
on the strength of an otherwise strong credit rating, or
simply a homeowner who might face the disruption of
having a mortgage placed in technical default. The
extent of these harms, moreover, grows with the length
of the suit. Here, oral argument indicated that civil suits
in Connecticut commonly take up to four to seven years
for completion. Tr. of Oral Arg. 44. Many state
attachment statutes require [501 U.S. 23] that the
amount of a bond be anywhere from the equivalent to
twice the amount the plaintiff seeks. See, e. g., Utah
Rule of Civ. Proc. 64C(b). These amounts bear no
relation to the harm the defendant might suffer even
assuming that money damages can make up for the
foregoing disruptions. It should be clear, however, that
such an assumption is fundamentally flawed. Reliance
on a bond does not sufficiently account for the harms
that flow from an erroneous attachment to excuse a
State from reducing that risk by means of a timely
hearing.
If a bond cannot serve to dispense with a hearing
immediately after attachment, neither is it sufficient
basis for not providing a preattachment hearing in the
absence of exigent circumstances even if in any event a
hearing would be provided a few days later. The reasons
are the same: a wrongful attachment can inflict injury
that will not fully be redressed by recovery on the bond
after a prompt postattachment hearing determines that
the attachment was invalid.
Once more, history and contemporary practices support
our conclusion. Historically, attachments would not
issue without a showing of extraordinary circumstances
even though a plaintiff bond was almost invariably
required in addition. Drake §§ 4, 114; Shinn §§ 86, 153.
Likewise, all but eight States currently require the
posting of a bond. Out of this 42-State majority, all but
one requires a preattachment hearing, a showing of
some exigency, or both, and all but one expressly require
a postattachment hearing when an attachment has been
issued ex parte. See Appendix to this opinion. This
testimony underscores the point that neither a hearing
nor an extraordinary circumstance limitation eliminates
the need for a bond, no more than a bond allows waiver
of these other protections. To reconcile the interests of
the defendant and the plaintiff accurately, due process
generally requires all of the above.
[501 U.S. 24] V
Because Connecticut's prejudgment remedy provision,
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-278e(a)(1), violates the
requirements of due process by authorizing
prejudgment attachment without prior notice or a
hearing, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
affirmed, and the case is remanded to that court for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.