Continental Forest Products, Inc., the plaintiffrespondent,
is an Oregon corporate lumber broker. As
plaintiff, it instituted this action against Chandler Supply
Company, also a corporation, the defendant-appellant,
seeking recovery of $10,231.45, plus interest, for two
carloads of plywood allegedly sold defendant in the
summer of 1969. Following trial without a jury, the
court entered findings of fact and conclusions of law in
favor of the plaintiff (hereinafter referred to as
Continental), and entered judgment in conformity with
its findings and conclusions. The defendant-appellant
(hereinafter referred to as Chandler) appeals from this
judgment and from the order of the trial court denying
its objections to the findings of fact, conclusions of law
and judgment of the court.
The appellant Chandler is a wholesale lumber
distributor at Boise and has done business, both buying
and selling of lumber products, with a company known
as North America Millwork, Inc., of Tacoma,
Washington. On June 26, 1969, Larry Williams, an
employee of Chandler, phoned North America
Millwork, Inc., for quotations on plywood prices,
advising North America it was in the market for a
carload of 1/2 inch plywood and a carload of 5/8 inch
plywood. Williams spoke with Ed Barker, an employee
of North America, giving him the necessary data. Later
on the same day, Barker advised Williams of the quoted
prices for plywood, and Williams ordered the two
carloads of plywood from North America Millwork,
giving Barker the Chandler purchase order numbers
3246 and 3247.
On the same day, Williams prepared two separate
Chandler purchase orders covering the two carloads of
plywood fixing the delivery date as two weeks or
sooner, f.o.b. mill, with the quoted prices. These two
purchase orders, one numbered 3246 and the other
numbered 3247, were mailed by Chandler to North
America Millwork on the same day.
This was Chandler's first order for plywood from North
America Millwork, although it had transacted a
considerable volume of other lumber business with
North America Millwork between December, 1968, and
July, 1969. In prior transactions when Chandler had
purchased from North America, North America had
sent its own written acknowledgments of Chandler's
purchase orders placed with it and later had submitted
invoices upon shipments being made. In this instance,
North America neither confirmed nor rejected the June
26, 1969, Chandler purchase orders by written
acknowledgment nor did it send its invoices to
Chandler.
However, on July 2, 1969, Chandler received two
acknowledgments of the orders for plywood from
Continental, both dated June 27, 1969, one for a carload
of 1/2 inch plywood, and the other for a carload of 5/8
inch plywood. The specifications, prices and terms for
the plywood as recited in the acknowledgments were
substantially the same as the orders placed by Chandler
with North America on June 26. The acknowledgments
also referred to the Chandler purchase orders 3246 and
3247 which had been sent to North America Millwork.
It is not entirely clear how Continental received
Chandler's orders sent to North America. Apparently Ed
Barker left his employment with North America and
commenced brokering for Continental and gave the
orders to Continental.
On July 7, 1969, the Monday following the Fourth of
July holiday, Earl Chandler, the president of appellant
company, in his [518 P.2d 1204] own handwriting, wrote
on each duplicate copy of the acknowledgments of
orders received from Continental, "Purchased from
North America Millwork. Earl Chandler 7-7-69" and
directed that they be mailed to Continental. Earl
Chandler testified that in writing this notation he
assumed that Continental was making the shipments for
North America. Mrs. Hebein, Earl Chandler's secretary,
testified that she mailed these copies of the
acknowledgments of orders, addressed to Continental,
by regular mail. Witnesses for Continental testified that
even though they searched through their files for these
copies of the acknowledgments, they could not be
found. Chandler kept copies of these acknowledgments
with his handwritten note on them, and they were
introduced into evidence.
Chandler received the first carload of plywood on July
24, 1969, and received an invoice from Continental for
this carload. The second carload of plywood arrived
August 6, 1969, and the invoice from Continental
arrived on August 15. Chandler took delivery of both of
these carloads, and at no time offered to return the
plywood.
The terms of the orders provided for a 2% discount if
paid for within five days after arrival of the invoice. On
August 11, 1969, Chandler made a check for $3,636.36
payable to both Continental and North America
Millwork and returned it to North America Millwork in
payment of these two carloads of plywood. In
calculating the amount of the payment, Chandler first
deducted the 2% discount for the two carloads of
plywood and also deducted a $6,212.95 trade debt owing
from North America to Chandler.1
North America returned Chandler's check and denied
that Chandler owed it money for the shipment of
plywood. Chandler sent the payment to North America
a second time, but it was again returned. Through a
series of letters and telephone calls Chandler attempted
to induce North America to accept payment. During this
time, Ed Barker (who was then acting as an independent
lumber broker, having left employment with North
America on June 30, 1969), sent a letter to Williams
(employee of Chandler) indicating that Continental was
the actual supplier of the plywood. Chandler's attempt
to pay North America failed, and Chandler refused to
tender payment to Continental without deducting
North America's trade debt.
Not having received payment for the two carloads,
Continental brought this action for the quoted price of
the plywood plus interest. Continental subsequently
filed its supplemental complaint alleging a second claim
against Chandler on the theory of unjust enrichment on
the part of Chandler and seeking as damages $10,231.45.
Appellant Chandler answered the complaint and
supplemental complaint, denying that it owed
Continental any money or that Continental had sold it
any goods. Chandler alleged that it had a contract only
with North America to whom it had tendered payment.
Following trial to the court on the issues framed by the
pleadings, the trial court rendered its memorandum
opinion in favor of Continental. Pursuant to I.R.C.P.
Rule 52, Chandler moved for reconsideration of the
memorandum opinion and proposed findings, which
motion the court denied. Thereafter findings of fact,
conclusions of law and judgment for $11,559.93 were
entered, to which appellant objected. The district court
denied these objections, and this appeal was taken.
Appellant first assigned as error the trial court's failure
to find that Continental's [518 P.2d 1205] claim was
subject to Chandler's right of set off against North
America.
In the trial court's memorandum opinion, rendered on
May 26, 1971, the court discussed the relationship
between Continental and Chandler and found that "the
very least we have was an implied agreement or quasi
contract."
Basically the courts have recognized three types of
contractual arrangements. Restatement of Contracts, ยง
5, comment a, at p. 7 (1932); 3 Corbin on Contracts, ยง
562 at p. 283 (1960). First is the express contract
wherein the parties expressly agree regarding a
transaction. Alexander v. O'Neil, 77 Ariz. 316, 267 P.2d
730 (1954). Secondly, there is the implied in fact
contract wherein there is no express agreement but the
conduct of the parties implies an agreement from which
an obligation in contract exists. Clements v. Jungert, 90
Idaho 143, 408 P.2d 810 (1965). The third category is
called an implied in law contract, or quasi contract.
However, a contract implied in law is not a contract at
all, but an obligation imposed by law for the purpose of
bringing about justice and equity without reference to
the intent or the agreement of the parties and, in some
cases, in spite of an agreement between the parties.
Hixon v. Allphin, 76 Idaho 327, 281 P.2d 1042 (1955);
McShane v. Quillin, 47 Idaho 542, 277 P.2d 554 (1929);
3 Corbin on Contracts, ยง 561, at p. 276 (1960). It is a
non-contractual obligation that is to be treated
procedurally as if it were a contract, and is often referred
to as quasi contract, unjust enrichment, implied in law
contract or restitution. In discussing a quasi contract or
an action founded on unjust enrichment, the California
Supreme Court stated in Ward v. Taggart, 51 Cal.2d
736, 336 P.2d 534 (1959):
"The promise is purely fictitious and unintentional, originally
implied to circumvent rigid common-law pleading. It was invoked
not to deny a remedy, but to create one `for the purpose of bringing
about justice without reference to the intention of the parties.' 1
Williston, Contracts (rev. ed.) p. 9; ..." 336 P.2d at 538.
Similarly, in Roberts v. Roberts, 64 Wyo. 433, 196 P.2d
361 (1948), the court stated at p. 367:
"This brings us to the question as to an implied or quasi-contract
pleaded in the second cause of action. Black's Law Dictionary
defines it thus:
`A quasi-contract is what was formerly known as the contract
implied in law; it has no reference to the intentions or expressions
of the parties. The obligation is imposed despite and frequently in
frustration of their intention.'" 196 P.2d at 367.
See also, Trollope v. Koerner, 106 Ariz. 164, 470 P.2d 91
(1970), and 1 Williston on Contracts (3d Ed.), ยง 3A at p.
13 (1957).
In this case it is clear that there is neither an express nor
an implied in fact contract since there was an express
rejection by Chandler of any intention to enter into a
contract with Continental as evidenced by the notation
made on the acknowledgments and Chandler's
subsequent attempts to pay North America Millwork for
the carloads of plywood. However, we agree with the
trial court that under the peculiar circumstances of this
case, the third type of contract, implied in law or quasi
contract, exists obligating Chandler to pay for the
materials which he received. However, the problem
which arises is determining the amount of recovery to
which Continental is entitled.
As the essence of a contract implied in law lies in the
fact that the defendant has received a benefit which it
would be inequitable for him to retain, it necessarily
follows that the measure of recovery in a quasicontractual
action is not the actual amount of the
enrichment, but the amount of the enrichment which,
as between the two parties it would be unjust for one
party to retain. Hixon v. Allphin, supra; 66 Am.Jur.2d,
Restitution and Implied Contracts, at p. 946 (1973);
Meehan v. Cheltenham, 410 Pa. 446 189 A.2d 593
(1963);[518 P.2d 1206] Farmers National Bank of
Bloomsburg v. Albertson, 203 Pa.Super. 205, 199 A.2d
486 (Pa. 1964). In the instant case we feel that the
enrichment which Chandler "unjustly received" was the
value of the plywood shipped less the trade set off which
Chandler had against North America Millwork and
which he would have been entitled to take had the
transaction been completed the way Chandler had
intended and attempted to complete it. Chandler had a
right to deal exclusively with North America and use his
trade set off as part of the purchase price. Chandler
should not be deprived of this set off in view of the way
that Continental became involved in this transaction.
The foregoing conclusions necessarily follow as a matter
of law from the salient facts found in the record. Those
facts are that Chandler had placed the orders initially
with North America Millwork, knowing that he had a
trade set off; that the North America Millwork
employee Ed Barker left his employment with North
America Millwork and apparently took the Chandler
orders with him, and that the orders subsequently
wound up in the Continental organization; that
Continental, without notifying Chandler that Barker
had terminated his employment with North America
and was now brokering for Continental, mailed its
acknowledgments of the two orders which Chandler
had placed with North America Millwork, referring to
them by Chandler purchase order numbers which were
sent to North America Millwork; that Chandler wrote
on those acknowledgments that he had purchased the
plywood from North America Millwork and mailed the
acknowledgments back to Continental; and that
Chandler attempted to make payment for the plywood
to North America Millwork. If any party was
responsible for the situation present in this case, it was
Continental. Although it is not entirely clear from the
record, it would appear that Barker breached the
fiduciary duty which he owed to his employer North
America Millwork by taking the Chandler purchase
orders to Continental. Continental then, wittingly or
unwittingly, took advantage of that breach of a fiduciary
relationship and filled the orders, apparently without
inquiry concerning the status of North America
Millwork, the existence of a trade debt, the situation
behind Barker's taking the purchase orders to
Continental, or notifying Chandler that it was
attempting to take over the North America transactions.
Under these circumstances we feel that it would not be
unjust to require Chandler to pay only that amount
which he would have had to pay to North America had
the transaction gone the way Chandler had intended and
attempted to have it go.
Since the resolution of the quasi-contractual issue is
dispositive in this case it is unnecessary to become
embroiled in a discussion of the presumption of receipt
of a letter duly mailed versus the weight to be given to
testimony on non-receipt, as did the trial court in
deciding the case and as did the parties on appeal.
Judgment should be entered for Continental against
Chandler in the amount of the principal claim less the
amount of the North America Millwork trade debt
which Chandler had. The matter should be remanded to
the trial court to make the necessary computations
including adjustments for interest on account.
Judgment reversed and remanded. 