This appeal presents a question that remains
surprisingly unanswered by the circuit courts: Does the
sale of an item via the eBay Internet auction site provide
sufficient "minimum contacts" to support personal
jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant in the buyer's
forum state? Plaintiff-Appellant Paul Boschetto
("Boschetto") was the winning bidder for a 1964 Ford
Galaxie sold on eBay by the Defendant-Appellee, Jeffrey
Hansing ("Hansing") for $34,106. Boschetto arranged
for the car to be shipped from Wisconsin to California,
but upon arrival it failed to meet his expectations or the
advertised description. Boschetto sued in federal court;
his complaint was dismissed for lack of personal
jurisdiction. We now affirm.
I. FACTUAL BACKGROUND AND
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
Boschetto lives in San Francisco, California.1
Defendant-Appellee Jeffrey D. Hansing resides in
Milton, Wisconsin. Id. Defendants-Appellees FrankBoucher
Chrysler Dodge-Jeep, Gordie Boucher Ford
and Boucher Automotive Group ("Boucher
Defendants") are private corporations with their
principal places of business in Wisconsin. The Boucher
Defendants operate a website that advertises their auto
dealerships although it is not alleged that this website
was connected in any way with the transaction at issue
in this case. Hansing is an employee of one of the
Boucher Defendants, Frank Boucher Chrysler DodgeJeep.
The complaint avers that on August 1, 2005, all
Defendants "owned and advertised [] a 1964 Ford
Galaxie 500 XL 427/425 hp `R Code' in awesome
condition, not restored, rust free chrome in excellent
condition, recently rebuilt and ready to be driven, with
clear title, and a vehicle warranty number of
4E68R149127."
The car was advertised for sale on the eBay Internet
auction site; a copy of a portion of the eBay listing was
attached to Boschetto's complaint. Id. The eBay listing
indicated that the item was located in Janesville,
Wisconsin. Boschetto bid $34,106 for the Galaxie on
August 8, 2005, and was notified through eBay that
same day that he was the winning bidder. Id. Boschetto
and Hansing communicated via email to arrange for
delivery of the vehicle from Wisconsin to California.
Boschetto ultimately hired a transport company to pick
up the car in Wisconsin; it arrived in California on
September 15, 2005. Id.
[539 F.3d 1015] Upon delivery, Boschetto discovered that
the car was not an "R Code" as advertised, and noted a
variety of other problems, including a motor that would
not turn over, rust, and extensive dents on the body of
the vehicle. Id. Boschetto contacted eBay and Hansing in
an attempt to rescind the purchase, but those efforts
failed. Id. He filed a complaint in United States District
Court, Northern District of California on February 23,
2006. Boschetto alleged four state law causes of action
(violation of the California Consumer Protection Act;
breach of contract; misrepresentation; and fraud), and
pled jurisdiction pursuant to the federal diversity statute,
28 U.S.C. § 1332(a).
All Defendants moved to dismiss based on lack of
personal jurisdiction. On July 13, 2006, the district court
granted the motion. The district court reasoned that the
lone jurisdictionally relevant contact with California, an
eBay sale consummated with a California purchaser, was
insufficient to establish jurisdiction over any of the
Defendants. Although Hansing used eBay to market the
automobile, the district court observed that "eBay acted
not as a `distribution center' but rather as a virtual
forum for the exchange of goods," and that in a standard
eBay transaction—like the one at issue in this
appeal—the item goes to whomever is the highest
bidder, and so "the eBay seller does not purposefully
avail himself of the privilege of doing business in a
forum state absent some additional conduct directed at
the forum state." Id.
The district court also rejected Boschetto's request to
conduct additional discovery relevant to jurisdiction. Id.
Noting its "broad discretion" to permit or deny such
discovery, the court found that Boschetto's request for
further discovery was premised on "speculat[ion]
without any support" that the additional discovery
would yield jurisdictionally relevant information. Id.
Judgment was entered on July 17, 2006 and this timely
appeal followed.
II. PERSONAL JURISDICTION
We review a dismissal for lack of personal jurisdiction
de novo. See Myers v. Bennett Law Offices, 238 F.3d
1068, 1071 (9th Cir.2001). In opposition to a defendant's
motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction, the
plaintiff bears the burden of establishing that
jurisdiction is proper. See Sher v. Johnson, 911 F.2d
1357, 1361 (9th Cir.1990). If the district court decides
the motion without an evidentiary hearing, which is the
case here, then "the plaintiff need only make a prima
facie showing of the jurisdictional facts." Id. (citation
omitted). Absent an evidentiary hearing this court "only
inquire[s] into whether [the plaintiff's] pleadings and
affidavits make a prima facie showing of personal
jurisdiction." Caruth v. Int'l Psychoanalytical Ass'n, 59
F.3d 126, 127-28 (9th Cir.1995). Uncontroverted
allegations in the plaintiff's complaint must be taken as
true. See AT & T, 94 F.3d at 588. "Conflicts between the
parties over statements contained in affidavits must be
resolved in the plaintiff's favor." Schwarzenegger v. Fred
Martin Motor Co., 374 F.3d 797, 800 (9th Cir.2004).
When no federal statute governs personal jurisdiction,
the district court applies the law of the forum state. See
Panavision Int'l L.P. v. Toeppen, 141 F.3d 1316, 1320
(9th Cir.1998). California's long-arm statute is coextensive
with federal standards, so a federal court may
exercise personal jurisdiction if doing so comports with
federal constitutional due process. Id. at 1320. "For a
court to exercise personal jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant, that defendant must have at least
`minimum contacts' with the relevant forum such that
the exercise of jurisdiction `does not offend traditional
notions [539 F.3d 1016] of fair play and substantial
justice.'" Schwarzenegger, 374 F.3d at 801 (quoting
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310,
316, 66 S.Ct. 154, 90 L.Ed. 95 (1945)). There are two
forms of personal jurisdiction that a forum state may
exercise over a nonresident defendant—general
jurisdiction and specific jurisdiction. We deal here only
with the latter.2
A. The district court correctly dismissed Boschetto's
complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction.
We apply a three-part test to determine whether the
exercise of specific jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant is appropriate:
(1) The non-resident defendant must purposefully direct his
activities or consummate some transaction with the forum or
resident thereof; or perform some act by which he purposefully
avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities in the forum,
thereby invoking the benefits and protections of its laws;
(2) the claim must be one which arises out of or relates to the
defendant's forum-related activities; and
(3) the exercise of jurisdiction must comport with fair play and
substantial justice, i.e. it must be reasonable.
Id. at 802 (citing Lake v. Lake, 817 F.2d 1416, 1421 (9th
Cir.1987)). The plaintiff bears the burden on the first
two prongs. Id. If the plaintiff establishes both prongs
one and two, the defendant must come forward with a
"compelling case" that the exercise of jurisdiction would
not be reasonable. Id. (quoting Burger King Corp. v.
Rudzewicz, 471 U.S. 462, 476-78, 105 S.Ct. 2174, 85
L.Ed.2d 528 (1985)). But if the plaintiff fails at the first
step, the jurisdictional inquiry ends and the case must be
dismissed. See Pebble Beach Co. v. Caddy, 453 F.3d
1151, 1155 (9th Cir. 2006) ("[Plaintiff's] arguments fail
under the first prong. Accordingly, we need not address
[the remaining two prongs].").
For part one of this three-part test, we have typically
analyzed cases that sound primarily in contract—as
Boschetto's case does—under a "purposeful availment"
standard. Schwarzenegger, 374 F.3d at 802 ("We often
use the phrase `purposeful availment' in shorthand
fashion, to include both purposeful availment and
purposeful direction, but availment and direction are, in
fact, two distinct concepts. A purposeful availment
analysis is most often used in suits sounding in
contract.") (internal citation omitted); see also
McGlinchy v. Shell Chemical Co., 845 F.2d 802, 817
(9th Cir.1988) (distinguishing purposeful direction
precedents where "personal jurisdiction is sought on a
contract claim, not on a tort claim"). To have
purposefully availed itself of the privilege of doing
business in the forum, a defendant must have
"performed some type of affirmative conduct which
allows or promotes the transaction of business within
the forum state." Sher, 911 F.2d at 1362 (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted). Our evaluation
of the jurisdictional significance of a defendant's
contract or other business in the forum is not rigid and
formalistic, but rather practical and pragmatic. Burger
King Corp., 471 U.S. at 478, 105 S.Ct. 2174 ("[W]e have
emphasized the need for a highly realistic approach that
recognizes that contract is ordinarily but an
intermediate step serving to tie up prior business
negotiations with future consequences which
themselves are the real object of the business
transaction.") (internal quotation marks and citation
omitted); Lake, 817 F.2d at 1421 [539 F.3d 1017] ("The
first step of the specific jurisdiction analysis involves a
qualitative evaluation of the defendant's contact with the
forum state.") (emphasis added). In doing so, we are
guided by the Supreme Court's admonition that the
formation of a contract with a nonresident defendant is
not, standing alone, sufficient to create jurisdiction.
Burger King Corp., 471 U.S. at 478, 105 S.Ct. 2174 ("If
the question is whether an individual's contract with an
out-of-state party alone can automatically establish
sufficient minimum contacts in the other party's home
forum, we believe the answer clearly is that it cannot.")
(emphasis in original); see also McGlinchy, 845 F.2d at
816 n. 9 (same).
Here, Boschetto fails at step one of the test for specific
jurisdiction, as the lone transaction for the sale of one
item does not establish that the Defendants purposefully
availed themselves of the privilege of doing business in
California. The arrangement between Boschetto and
Hansing which is, at bottom, a contract for the sale of a
good, is insufficient to have created a substantial
connection with California. Hansing (and assuming
arguendo that they had any involvement in the
transaction, the Boucher Defendants) did not create any
ongoing obligations with Boschetto in California; once
the car was sold the parties were to go their separate
ways. Neither Boschetto's complaint nor his affidavit in
opposition to dismissal point to any continuing
commitments assumed by the Defendants under the
contract. Id. Nor did performance of the contract
require the Defendants to engage in any substantial
business in California. On Boschetto's version of the
facts, funds were sent to Wisconsin and arrangements
were made to pick up the car there and have it delivered
to California. This was, as the district court observed, a
"one-shot affair." See CompuServe, Inc. v. Patterson, 89
F.3d 1257, 1265 (6th Cir.1996). As the Supreme Court
has expressly cautioned, a contract alone does not
automatically establish minimum contacts in the
plaintiff's home forum. See Burger King Corp., 471 U.S.
at 478, 105 S.Ct. 2174; see also Doe v. Unocal Corp., 248
F.3d 915, 924 (9th Cir.2001) ("However, an individual's
contract with an out-of-state party alone [cannot]
automatically establish sufficient minimum contacts to
support personal jurisdiction.") (internal quotation
marks and citations omitted); cf. Travelers Health Ass'n
v. Commonwealth of Va., 339 U.S. 643, 647, 70 S.Ct.
927, 94 L.Ed. 1154 (1950) (purposeful availment found if
"business activities reach out beyond one state and
create continuing relationships and obligations")
(emphasis added).3
Ignoring the limited nature of the transaction at issue,
Boschetto attaches special significance to the fact that
the transaction [539 F.3d 1018] was consummated via
eBay, noting that the eBay listing could have been
viewed by anyone in California (or any other state for
that matter) with Internet access. But the fact that eBay
was used as the conduit for this sale does not affect the
jurisdictional outcome, at least not on the particular
facts presented here.
In Cybersell, Inc. v. Cybersell, Inc., 130 F.3d 414, 419
(9th Cir.1997), we discussed with approval a sliding
scale analysis that looks to how interactive an Internet
website is for purposes of determining its jurisdictional
effect. ("In sum, the common thread, well stated by the
district court in Zippo, is that the `likelihood that
personal jurisdiction can be constitutionally exercised is
directly proportionate to the nature and quality of the
commercial activity that an entity conducts over the
Internet.' ") (quoting Zippo Mfg. Co. v. Zippo Dot Com,
952 F.Supp. 1119, 1124 (W.D.Pa. 1997)). The plaintiff
in Cybersell relied on the fact that the defendant
operated a website, accessible in the forum state, that
contained allegedly infringing trademarks. 130 F.3d at
416. The defendant's website advertised its services but
did not allow parties to transact business via the site. Id.
at 419. Noting the lack of interactivity on the
defendant's website, the court concluded that the
defendant had "done no act and [] consummated no
transaction, nor has it performed any act by which it
purposefully availed itself of the privilege of conducting
activities, in Arizona, thereby invoking the benefits and
protections of Arizona law." Id.
The Cybersell analysis, while persuasive where the
contact under consideration is the website itself, is
largely inapplicable in this case. Here, eBay was used to
create a listing for the sale of a good. Based on a
superficial application of Cybersell, the eBay listing
process and the sale it engenders is "interactive." Id.
(noting the lack of evidence suggesting that defendant's
website resulted in any business generation). But, as the
district court noted, "the issue is not whether the court
has personal jurisdiction over the intermediary eBay but
whether it has personal jurisdiction over an individual
who conducted business over eBay." In Cybersell and
related cases where the Internet site actually belongs to
and is operated by the defendant, the nature of the
website has jurisdictional significance because the
website allows the defendant to maintain some ongoing
contact with the forum state (as well as every other state
that can access the site). See Zippo, 952 F.Supp. at 1125-
26 ("We are being asked to determine whether Dot
Com's conducting of electronic commerce with
Pennsylvania residents constitutes the purposeful
availment of doing business in Pennsylvania."). Here,
the eBay listing was not part of broader e-commerce
activity; the listing temporarily advertised a good for
sale and that listing closed once the item was sold,
thereby extinguishing the Internet contact for this
transaction within the forum state (and every other
forum).4
Moreover, Boschetto does not allege that any of the
Defendants are using eBay to conduct business
generally. He does not allege that Defendants conduct
regular sales in California (or anywhere else) via eBay.
Based on his own affidavit he named the Boucher
Defendants based on a "good faith belief" that Hansing
may have been acting as their agent during the sale. But
he does not go on to allege — on information and belief
or otherwise — that either Hansing or the Boucher
Defendants are [539 F.3d 1019] regular users of the eBay
sales platform to sell their cars.5
This is a distinction with a difference, as the cases that
have found that jurisdiction was proper based on eBay
sales relied heavily on the fact that the defendant was
using the platform as a broader vehicle for commercial
activity. See, e.g., Crummey v. Morgan, 965 So.2d 497,
500 (Ct.App.La. 2007) (evidence of two prior sales to
Louisiana residents in prior year); Dedvukaj v. Maloney,
447 F.Supp.2d 813, 822-23 (E.D.Mich.2006) ("Although
the Court's research has not disclosed any personal
jurisdiction cases involving the use of eBay auctions as a
commercial seller's primary marketing vehicle, it is clear
from the record that Defendants' use of eBay is regular
and systemic."); Malcolm v. Esposito, 2003 WL
23272406 at *4 (Va.Cir.Ct. Dec. 12, 2003) ("Defendants
are commercial sellers of automobiles who, at the time
the BMW was sold, were represented on eBay as `power
sellers' with 213 transactions.").
At bottom, the consummation of the sale via eBay here
is a distraction from the core issue: This was a one-time
contract for the sale of a good that involved the forum
state only because that is where the purchaser happened
to reside, but otherwise created no "substantial
connection" or ongoing obligations there. See McGee,
355 U.S. at 223, 78 S.Ct. 199. The Supreme Court has, in
the past, sounded a note of caution that traditional
jurisdictional analyses are not upended simply because a
case involves technological developments that make it
easier for parties to reach across state lines. WorldWide
Volkswagen v. Woodson, 444 U.S. 286, 293, 100
S.Ct. 580, 62 L.Ed.2d 490 (1980) ("[W]e have never
accepted the proposition that state lines are irrelevant
for jurisdictional purposes, nor could we, and remain
faithful to the principles of interstate federalism
embodied in the Constitution."). The use of eBay no
doubt made it far easier to reach a California buyer, but
the ease with which Boschetto was contacted does not
determine whether the nature and quality of the
Defendants' contacts serve to support jurisdiction. That
is not to say that the use of eBay digs a virtual moat
around the defendant, fending off jurisdiction in all
cases. Where eBay is used as a means for establishing
regular business with a remote forum such that a finding
of personal jurisdiction comports with "traditional
notions of fair play and substantial justice," International
Shoe Co., 326 U.S. at 316, 66 S.Ct. 154, then a
defendant's use of eBay may be properly taken into
account for purposes of establishing personal
jurisdiction. See Crummey, 965 So.2d at 500; Dedvukaj,
447 F.Supp.2d at 822-23; Malcolm, 2003 WL 23272406
at *4. But on the facts of this case—a one-time
transaction—the use of eBay as the conduit for that
transaction does not have any dispositive effect on
jurisdiction.6
[539 F.3d 1020] B. The district court did not abuse its
discretion by denying Boschetto's request for
jurisdictional discovery.
A district court's decision to permit or deny
jurisdictional discovery is reviewed for abuse of
discretion. See Data Disc, Inc. v. Systems Tech. Assoc.,
Inc., 557 F.2d 1280, 1285 n. 1 (9th Cir. 1977). The
district court's refusal to provide such discovery, "will
not be reversed except upon the clearest showing that
denial of discovery results in actual and substantial
prejudice to the complaining litigant. Discovery may be
appropriately granted where pertinent facts bearing on
the question of jurisdiction are controverted or where a
more satisfactory showing of the facts is necessary." Id.
(citing Wells Fargo & Co. v. Wells Fargo Express Co.,
556 F.2d 406, 430 n. 24 (9th Cir.1977)).
The district court did not abuse its discretion by denying
Boschetto's request for jurisdictional discovery.
Boschetto does not allege that the Boucher Defendants'
dealership website is used to conduct sales, merely that it
can be viewed by potential customers. Moreover,
Boschetto does not allege that any of the Defendants
made any other eBay sales or posted listings either
before or after the initiation of the lawsuit. While it
might be jurisdictionally relevant if Hansing or the
Boucher Defendants had used eBay to conduct a
significant quantity of automobile sales to California
residents or in other states, neither Boschetto's
complaint nor his affidavit allege that any of the
Defendants are engaged in such sales. The denial of
Boschetto's request for discovery, which was based on
little more than a hunch that it might yield
jurisdictionally relevant facts, was not an abuse of
discretion. See Butcher's Union Local No. 498 v. SDC
Inv., Inc., 788 F.2d 535, 540 (9th Cir.1986) (holding that
district court did not abuse its discretion by refusing
jurisdictional discovery where the plaintiffs "state only
that they `believe' discovery will enable them to
demonstrate sufficient California business contacts to
establish the court's personal jurisdiction").
III. CONCLUSION
The sale of one automobile via the eBay website,
without more, does not provide sufficient "minimum
contacts" to establish jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant in the forum state. Likewise, given the total
absence of any evidence or allegations that the conduct
here involved more than just this one sale, the district
court did not abuse its discretion by refusing to allow
jurisdictional discovery.
AFFIRMED.