JUSTICE GINSBURG's carefully reasoned opinion,
post, at 577 (dissenting opinion), demonstrates the error
in the Court's rather ambitious reading of this opaque
jurisdictional statute. She also has demonstrated that
"ambiguity" is a term that may have different meanings
for different judges, for the Court has made the
remarkable declaration that its reading of the statute is
so obviously correct—and JUSTICE GINSBURG'S so
obviously wrong—that the text does not even qualify as
"ambiguous." See ante, at 567. Because ambiguity is
apparently in the eye of the beholder, I remain
convinced that it is unwise to treat the ambiguity vel
non of a statute as determinative of whether legislative
history is consulted. Indeed, I believe that we as judges
are more, rather than less, constrained when we make
ourselves accountable to all reliable evidence of
legislative intent. See Koons Buick Pontiac GMC, Inc. v.
Nigh, 543 U. S. 50, 65-66, and n. 1 (2004) (Stevens, J.,
concurring).
[545 U.S. 573] The legislative history of 28 U. S. C. §
1367 provides powerful confirmation of JUSTICE
GINSBURG'S interpretation of that statute. It is helpful
to consider in full the relevant portion of the House
Report, which was also adopted by the Senate:
"This section would authorize jurisdiction in a case like Finley [v.
United States, 490 U. S. 545 (1989)], as well as essentially restore
the pre-Finley understandings of the authorization for and limits
on other forms of supplemental jurisdiction. In federal question
cases, it broadly authorizes the district courts to exercise
supplemental jurisdiction over additional claims, including claims
involving the joinder of additional parties. In diversity cases, the
district courts may exercise supplemental jurisdiction, except when
doing so would be inconsistent with the jurisdictional requirements
of the diversity statute.
. . . . .
"Subsection 114(b) [§ 1367(b)] prohibits a district court in a case
over which it has jurisdiction founded solely on the general
diversity provision, 28 U. S. C. § 1332, from exercising
supplemental jurisdiction in specified circumstances. [Footnote 16:
`The net effect of subsection (b) is to implement the principal
rationale of Owen Equipment & Erection Co. v. Kroger, 437 U. S.
365 (1978)'.] In diversity-only actions the district courts may not
hear plaintiffs' supplemental claims when exercising supplemental
jurisdiction would encourage plaintiffs to evade the jurisdictional
requirement of 28 U. S. C. § 1332 by the simple expedient of
naming initially only those defendants whose joinder satisfies
section 1332's requirements and later adding claims not within
original federal jurisdiction against other defendants who have
intervened or been joined on a supplemental basis. In accord with
case law, the subsection [545 U.S. 574] also prohibits the joinder or
intervention of persons or plaintiffs if adding them is inconsistent
with section 1332's requirements. The section is not intended to
affect the jurisdictional requirements of 28 U. S. C. § 1332 in
diversity-only class actions, as those requirements were interpreted
prior to Finley. [Footnote 17: `See Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur v.
Cauble, 255 U. S. 356 (1921); Zahn v. International Paper Co., 414
U. S. 291 (1973)'.]
"Subsection (b) makes one small change in pre-Finley practice.
Anomalously, under current practice, the same party might
intervene as of right under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23(a)
and take advantage of supplemental jurisdiction, but not come
within supplemental jurisdiction if parties already in the action
sought to effect the joinder under Rule 19. Subsection (b) would
eliminate this anomaly, excluding Rule 23(a) plaintiff-intervenors
to the same extent as those sought to be joined as plaintiffs under
Rule 19." H. R. Rep. No. 101-734, pp. 28-29 (1990) (footnote
omitted) (hereinafter House Report or Report).[1]
Not only does the House Report specifically say that §
1367 was not intended to upset Zahn v. International
Paper Co., 414 U. S. 291 (1973), but its entire
explanation of the statute demonstrates that Congress
had in mind a very specific and relatively modest
task—undoing this Court's 5-to-4 decision in Finley v.
United States, 490 U. S. 545 (1989). In addition to
overturning that unfortunate and much-criticized
decision,[2] the statute, according to the Report, codifies
and preserves "the pre-Finley understandings of the
authorization [545 U.S. 575] for and limits on other
forms of supplemental jurisdiction," House Report, at
28, with the exception of making "one small change in
pre-Finley practice," id., at 29, which is not relevant
here.
The sweeping purpose that the Court's decision imputes
to Congress bears no resemblance to the House Report's
description of the statute. But this does not seem to
trouble the Court, for its decision today treats statutory
interpretation as a pedantic exercise, divorced from any
serious attempt at ascertaining congressional intent. Of
course, there are situations in which we do not honor
Congress' apparent intent unless that intent is made
"clear" in the text of a statute—in this way, we can be
certain that Congress considered the issue and intended
a disfavored outcome, see, e. g., Landgraf v. USI Film
Products, 511 U. S. 244 (1994) (requiring clear
statement for retroactive civil legislation). But that
principle provides no basis for discounting the House
Report, given that our cases have never recognized a
presumption in favor of expansive diversity jurisdiction.
The Court's reasons for ignoring this virtual billboard of
congressional intent are unpersuasive. That a
subcommittee of the Federal Courts Study Committee
believed that an earlier, substantially similar version of
the statute overruled Zahn, see ante, at 569, only
highlights the fact that the statute is ambiguous. What is
determinative is that the House Report explicitly
rejected that broad reading of the statutory text. Such a
report has special significance as an indicator of
legislative intent. In Congress, committee reports are
normally considered the authoritative explication of a
statute's text and purposes, and busy legislators and their
assistants rely on that explication in casting their votes.
Cf. Garcia v. United States, 469 U. S. 70, 76 (1984) ("In
surveying legislative history we have repeatedly stated
that the authoritative source for finding the Legislature's
intent lies in the Committee Reports on the bill, which
`represen[t] the considered and collective understanding
of those Congressmen [545 U.S. 576] involved in
drafting and studying proposed legislation'" (quoting
Zuber v. Allen, 396 U. S. 168, 186 (1969); brackets in
original)).
The Court's second reason—its comment on the three
law professors who participated in drafting § 1367, see
ante, at 570—is similarly off the mark. In the law review
article that the Court refers to, the professors were
merely saying that the text of the statute was susceptible
to an overly broad (and simplistic) reading, and that
clarification in the House Report was therefore
appropriate. See Rowe, Burbank, & Mengler,
Compounding or Creating Confusion About
Supplemental Jurisdiction? A Reply to Professor Freer,
40 Emory L. J. 943, 960, n. 90 (1991).[3] Significantly, the
reference to Zahn in the House Report does not at all
appear to be tacked on or out of place; indeed, it is
wholly consistent with the Report's broader explanation
of Congress' goal of overruling Finley and preserving
pre-Finley law. To suggest that these professors
participated in a "deliberate effort to amend a statute
through a committee report," ante, at 570, reveals an
unrealistic view of the legislative process, not to
mention disrespect for three law professors who acted
in the role of public servants. To be sure, legislative
history can be manipulated. But, in the situation [545
U.S. 577] before us, there is little reason to fear that an
unholy conspiracy of "unrepresentative committee
members," ante, at 568, law professors, and "unelected
staffers and lobbyists," ibid., endeavored to torpedo
Congress' attempt to overrule (without discussion) two
longstanding features of this Court's diversity
jurisprudence.
After nearly 20 pages of complicated analysis, which
explores subtle doctrinal nuances and coins various
neologisms, the Court announces that § 1367 could not
reasonably be read another way. See ante, at 567. That
conclusion is difficult to accept. Given JUSTICE
GINSBURG'S persuasive account of the statutory text
and its jurisprudential backdrop, and given the
uncommonly clear legislative history, I am confident
that the majority's interpretation of § 1367 is mistaken. I
respectfully dissent.