This is an action brought by the Prosecuting Attorney of
Kootenai County on behalf of the people of the state of
Idaho to establish public rights in and to privately
owned water front property on Lake Coeur d'Alene.
The district court determined that the public had no
right or interest in the property and gave judgment to
the property owners. We affirm.
[594 P.2d 1095] THE FACTS
Defendants-respondents C.R.W. Fox and Eileen Fox,
husband and wife, and Burgess K. McDonald, personal
representative of the estate of Carmelita K. McDonald,
deceased, own adjoining residential properties in the
City of Coeur d'Alene. The properties consist of two
residential lots in the Lake Shore Addition Plat together
with two water front parcels abutting the waters of Lake
Coeur d'Alene. The water front property is separated
from the platted lots by Lake Shore Drive, a dedicated
public street. Respondents' homes and yards are in the
platted lots to the north of Lake Shore Drive. The water
front lots to the south of Lake Shore Drive are for the
most part sandy beach. The beach lots are adjoined on
both sides by other privately owned lots, which together
comprise what is commonly known as Sander's Beach.
The beach has no public access other than from the lake
itself. But the public does have access to the lake via a
deeded right-of-way to the west of respondents'
property and via a ten-foot wide pathway to the east of
respondents' property.
Respondents' beach property extends south from Lake
Shore Drive to the ordinary mean high water mark of
Lake Coeur d'Alene. Their adjoining lots have a
combined lake frontage of 250 feet and a depth of from
60 to 75 feet. The property is subject to the seasonal
fluctuations of high water in the spring and low water in
the late summer and fall. The property is also subject to
the washings and erosive forces of the lake.
For many years, at least since the 1920's, respondents
and their predecessors have maintained seawalls to
protect a portion of their property immediately south of
Lake Shore Drive from the erosive forces of the lake. In
1971 respondents obtained the necessary building
permits from the City of Coeur d'Alene and constructed
a new concrete seawall. The new wall is a three-sided
structure extending approximately 20 feet closer to the
lake than the earlier walls and running the entire 250
feet across respondents' property. The wall does not
interfere with swimming or boating on the lake, nor
does it extend to the ordinary high water mark of the
lake. The wall has, however, eliminated the public use of
the enclosed area for sunbathing, picnicking and other
related activities. It is this 20 feet by 250 feet enclosed
area which is in dispute here.
This action was brought to force respondents to remove
the seawall and to permanently enjoin them from
further interfering with the alleged right of the public to
use the enclosed areas. The complaint alleged that for
over thirty years the general public had enjoyed
complete freedom to use the beach for recreational
purposes. It was alleged that by virtue of such public use
respondents had impliedly dedicated the property to the
general public or in the alternative that the public had
acquired an easement thereon by prescription or by
custom. It was also alleged that the wall interfered with
the public trust in which the waters of the lake are held.
After a trial to the court sitting without a jury, the
people of the state of Idaho were adjudged to have no
right or interest whatever to the property. The
requested injunctive relief was denied, and judgment
was entered in favor of respondents. This appeal
followed.
STANDING
No governmental agency is in any way affiliated with
this litigation and no rights of the State in its capacity as
sovereign are concerned here. Nor does the City of
Coeur d'Alene or Kootenai County claim any interest to
this property. The action is brought by the Prosecuting
Attorney for Kootenai County, but is brought solely on
behalf of the people at large, i.e., the general public of
the state.
A previous action relating to this property has been
brought by the State of Idaho through the State Land
Board and the Attorney General's office. The State there
alleged that the seawall constituted a trespass upon the
bed of the lake, but this claim was dismissed upon the
stipulation that the wall in fact was situated entirely
upon respondents' private property. The State also [594
P.2d 1096] alleged the existence of public rights in and to
the property by an implied dedication and/or an
easement by prescription. But these claims were also
dismissed upon the district court's determination that
the attorney general was not the proper party plaintiff to
assert such public rights. No appeal was taken by the
State of Idaho from the dismissal of that action. In the
present case, respondents likewise challenge the
standing of the prosecuting attorney to bring the action
on behalf of the people of the State of Idaho.
I.C. § 31-2604(1) provides that it is the duty of the
prosecuting attorney:
To prosecute or defend all actions, applications or motions, civil or
criminal, in the district court of his county in which the people, or
the state, or the county, are interested, or are a party; and when the
place of trial is changed in any such action or proceeding to another
county, he must prosecute or defend the same in such other county.
In contrast, I.C. § 67-1401(1) provides that it is the duty
of the attorney general
To attend the courts of the state of Idaho and prosecute or defend
all causes to which the state or any elective officer thereof, or a
judge or magistrate, in his official capacity, is a party and all causes
to which any county may be a party, unless the interest of the
county is adverse to the state or some officer thereof acting in his
official capacity, and except as otherwise provided by law.
The difference between these two statutes insofar as this
case is concerned centers around the attorney general's
duty to represent the state in its sovereign capacity,
while the prosecuting attorney has the additional duty to
represent "the people" separately from the political
entity of the state or the county. This difference is not a
mere accident. The first statute enumerating the duties
of the attorney general included prosecution of "all
actions to which the people of the Territory of Idaho are
a party." 1885, Thirteenth Session, Idaho Territory, p.
31. However, in 1887 this statute was amended to
eliminate representation of the people of the state
separately from the state in its sovereign status. The
statute has remained unchanged in this regard to this
day.
We are of the opinion that the legislative grant of
authority to the prosecuting attorney to prosecute
actions in which "the people are interested" amounts to
a statutory grant of standing in the instant case. The
statute empowers the prosecuting attorney to call upon
the courts of this state for vindication of public rights
which for all practical purposes would otherwise go
unprotected. The rights contended for here are of this
nature. This court therefore holds that this action is
properly brought under I.C. § 31-2604(1) by the
prosecuting attorney.
THE MERITS
A. Easement by Prescription.
Appellant claims a right on behalf of the general public
of this state to use private property for recreational
purposes. In order to establish such a right by
prescription, a party must submit "reasonably clear and
convincing proof of open, notorious, continuous,
uninterrupted use, under a claim of right, with the
knowledge of the owner of the servient tenement, for
the prescriptive period." West v. Smith, 95 Idaho 550,
557, 511 P.2d 1326, 1333 (1973) (footnotes omitted).
The prescriptive right cannot arise, however, if the use
of the land is with the permission of the owner. West v.
Smith, supra; Trunnell v. Ward, 86 Idaho 555, 389 P.2d
221 (1964); Cox v. Cox, 84 Idaho 513, 373 P.2d 929
(1962); Sinnett v. Werelus, 83 Idaho 514, 365 P.2d 952
(1961).
After hearing the testimony of some seventeen
witnesses on the use of respondents' property, the trial
court found "that the use herein by the public was open,
notorious, continuous, and uninterrupted and with the
knowledge of the defendants [respondents] for more
than the prescriptive period." The court further found,
however, that the public use was in fact "a permissive
use" and that "the evidence herein does not establish an
adverse or hostile use by the plaintiff [appellant] against
the interest of [594 P.2d 1097] the defendants
[respondents] nor any act on the part of any member of
the public that would give notice to the defendants
[respondents] that the public was claiming an interest
adverse to them." The court therefore concluded that no
public rights had been established by prescription.
These findings, if supported by substantial and
competent evidence in the record, will not be disturbed
on appeal. I.R.C.P. 52(a); Skelton v. Spencer, 98 Idaho
417, 565 P.2d 1374 (1977); Idaho Water Resource Board
v. Kramer, 97 Idaho 535, 548 P.2d 35 (1976). We have
carefully reviewed the record and conclude that there is
substantial and competent evidence to support these
findings.1 Even so, the court's finding that the use was
by permission [594 P.2d 1098] of respondents can only
be sustained from that point in time in which
respondents held title to the property. Respondents Fox
acquired their property in 1948. Carmelita McDonald,
now deceased, acquired hers in 1924. Appellant
contends that the prescriptive rights to use the beach
were acquired prior to 1948 and 1924, and that
respondents took their fee interests subject to the
already established public rights. We find it unnecessary
to answer this contention. For the reasons stated below,
this court is of the opinion that the "general public" or
"the people of the state of Idaho" as distinguished from
specific individuals cannot, absent specific statutory
authorization, acquire prescriptive rights to private
property.
As a starting point, it is important that the underlying
legal rationale of a prescriptive right be discussed. Many
courts have relied upon the fiction of the "lost-grant,"
i.e. it was presumed, from long possession under claim
of right and with acquiescence of the owner, that there
must have originally been a grant, from the owner to
the claimant, which had become lost during the course
of time. 2 G. Thompson, Thompson on Real Property, §
337, 171-80 (1961); 3 R. Powell, The Law of Real
Property, § 413 (1977); 25 Am.Jur.2d, Easements, § 39,
452-53. Under the lost grant rationale, courts have held
that the general public, considered apart from legally
organized or political entities, could not acquire
prescriptive rights because they could not receive a
grant. Rosemann v. Adams, 398 S.W.2d 855 (Mo. 1966);
Morgan v. McLoughlin, 5 N.Y.2d 1041, 185 N.Y.S.2d
801, 158 N.E.2d 498 (1959); Ivons-Nispel, Inc. v. Lowe,
347 Mass. 760, 200 N.E.2d 282 (1964); Bioletti v.
Sindoni, 135 N.J. Eq. 609, 39 A.2d 634 (1944). In IvonsNispel,
Inc. v. Lowe, supra, in a case almost identical to
the case at bar, the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts stated that "We are of opinion that
`persons of the local community' and the `general public'
are too broad a group to acquire by prescription an
easement to use private beaches for bathing and for
recreational purposes. (citations omitted.)" 200 N.E.2d
at 283.
Although Idaho long ago abandoned the fiction of the
lost grant, we reach the same result as the Massachusetts
court in holding that the general public cannot acquire
prescriptive rights in private property. In Last Chance
Ditch Co. v. Sawyer, an action brought by the property
owner to enjoin 89 persons from permitting waste
water to flow into the canal, 35 Idaho 61, 66-67, 204 P.
654, 655 (1922), the court stated
We are of the opinion, however, that the recognized fiction of a
lost grant should not be given such controlling efficacy. While it is
true that the statute of limitations does not in terms apply to the
acquisition of title to an easement by prescription, it is generally
held that by analogy such statutes are applicable. The use of an
easement constitutes a direct invasion of the dominion of the
proprietor of the land, and the statute forbids maintenance of an
action to prevent such use as has been enjoyed openly,
continuously, adversely, and with the acquiescence of the owner for
a period of five years or more. The statute announces the policy of
the law. It does not appear to be founded upon the fiction of a lost
grant, but upon the proposition that it is the policy of the state to
discourage litigation of matters which, through the lapse of time,
should be considered as settled. We think the acquiescence of the
owner of land in case of [594 P.2d 1099] continuous and adverse
user of an easement is presumed, and can be disproved only by
showing acts upon his part which interrupt the continuity of the
use, or by appropriate action in court to prevent its continuance.
(See Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. McFarlan, 43 N.J.L. 605.)
The statute of limitations discussed in Last Chance
Ditch Co., supra, upon which prescriptive rights in
Idaho are based, is I.C. § 5-203. This statute in effect
gives an owner five years to take the necessary and
appropriate legal action to have an unauthorized use of
his property stopped. If the owner of the property fails
to eject the trespasser or enjoin the unauthorized use,
after five years his right to do so will be barred. But as
against whom would the owner be barred? Only those
who had actually made open, notorious, continuous,
uninterrupted use, under a claim of right, with the
knowledge of the owner, for the five year period. Those
persons who had not made such use could be enjoined
from further interfering with the owner's superior
rights.
In West v. Smith, supra, where an individual claimant
asserted a prescriptive right to moor his houseboat in
front of another person's privately owned lake front lot
and to maintain a catwalk onto the owner's property,
this court held that any prescriptive right there acquired
was purely personal to the individual claimant. The
prescriptive right belonged exclusively to the actual
user, and not to guests or assignees. The private owner
could therefore exclude all others from making any
unapproved use of his property.
As in West v. Smith, supra, the rights contended for
here are in the nature of an easement in gross. Being a
personal right, the rule is that one individual's
prescriptive use cannot inure to the benefit of anyone
else. Personal prescriptive rights are confined to the
actual adverse user and are limited to the use exercised
during the prescriptive period. West v. Smith, supra;
Kirk v. Schultz, 63 Idaho 278, 119 P.2d 266 (1941); 2 G.
Thompson, Thompson on Real Property, § 346, 264-66
(1961). The fact that hundreds of individuals have made
use of respondents' property for the prescriptive period
does not bar respondents from enjoining all future
trespass to the property. Nor does the use of
respondents' property by certain neighbors or friends or
even total strangers accrue or inure to the benefit of
others. We therefore hold that the "people of the State
of Idaho" as distinguished from specific individuals
cannot acquire prescriptive rights in and to private
property absent some express statutory authority. The
one situation where the legislature has allowed such
public prescriptive rights is in public highways. When a
right-of-way has been used by the general public for a
period of five years and has been maintained at public
expense, the right-of-way becomes a public highway.
See I.C. § 40-103 and Meservey v. Gulliford, 14 Idaho
133, 93 P. 780 (1908). No similar statute applies to the
facts of this case. The district court's denial of the
prescriptive easement is affirmed.
B. Dedication.
Appellant contends that respondents have made an
implied dedication of their property to the public. The
district court put the burden on appellant to prove that
respondents had by their acts or omissions intended to
dedicate the land to public use. The court found that this
burden had not been sustained. We concur.
The fundamental principles in this state regarding
implied dedications are found in Village of Hailey v.
Riley, 14 Idaho 481, 495, 95 P. 686, 691 (1908), quoted
with approval in Simmons v. Perkins, 63 Idaho 136, 143,
118 P.2d 740, 744 (1941):
It is no trivial thing to take another's land without compensation,
and for this reason the courts will not lightly declare a dedication to
public use. It is elementary law that an intention to dedicate upon
the part of the owner must be plainly manifest.
.....
And while long continued user, without objection, and with the
knowledge and [594 P.2d 1100] consent of the owner is some
evidence of a right in the public, still there must be joined to that
user an intention upon the part of the owner to dedicate, or no
dedication will be consummated; for the long-continued user by the
public without objection by the owner is entirely consistent with a
license to the public to use the land, and therefore evidence of longcontinued
user alone will not support a finding of fact that a
dedication was created. Neither will a finding of fact of mere longcontinued
user support a conclusion of law that a public highway
was created. As previously stated, in order to constitute a dedication
of a highway by evidence in pais, there must be convincing
evidence that the owner intended to appropriate the land to the
public use.
Appellant urges this court to adopt the reasoning of the
California per curiam decisions, Gion v. City of Santa
Clara and Dietz v. King, 2 Cal.3d 29, 84 Cal.Rptr. 162,
465 P.2d 50 (1970), for the proposition that five years
uninterrupted public use of private property creates a
conclusive presumption of the owner's intent to
dedicate. We decline the opportunity. Instead we adhere
to the rule that a party claiming a right by dedication
bears the burden of proof on every material issue. The
intent of the owner to dedicate his land to public use
must be clearly and unequivocally shown and must
never be presumed. Simmons v. Perkins, supra; Hamerly
v. Denton, 359 P.2d 121 (Alaska 1961); City of
Scottsdale v. Mocho, 8 Ariz.App. 146, 444 P.2d 437
(1968); Dept. of Natural Resources v. Mayor and
Council of Ocean City, 274 Md. 1, 332 A.2d 630 (1975);
Laug v. Ottowa County Road Comm., 37 Mich.App.
757, 195 N.W.2d 336 (1972); Miller v. Roy W. Heinrich
& Co., 257 Or. 155, 476 P.2d 183 (1970); Shia v.
Pendergrass, 222 S.C. 342, 72 S.E.2d 699 (1952); Bonner
v. Sudbury, 18 Utah.2d 140, 417 P.2d 646 (1966);
Cummins v. King County, 72 Wn.2d 624, 434 P.2d 588
(1967); Carr v. Hopkin, 556 P.2d 221 (Wyo. 1976).
We find additional support for this rule in I.C. § 36-
1604.2 That statute contains the following statement of
legislative purpose: "The purpose of this section is to
encourage owners of land to make private land and
water areas available to the public without charge for
recreational purposes by limiting their liability toward
persons entering thereon for such purposes." The
statute then sets forth various provision by which the
private owner will enjoy limited tort liability in actions
brought by the recreational user. Although the
legislative intent in limiting the tort liability of the
generous private owner is not directly on point here, we
find it applicable by analogy. It seems incongruous for
the legislature expressly to encourage the private owner
to make his land available for public recreation and for
this court to simultaneously presume that the private
owner has thereby dedicated his property to the public
use.
The district court found as a fact that "none of the
present defendants [respondents] nor any of their
predecessors ever intended to make any dedication of
the disputed area to public use... . The plaintiff
[appellant] did not carry his burden of proof in this
regard." Our review of the record discloses substantial
and competent evidence to support this finding.
Respondents exercised dominion over the property by
at various times personally ousting unwelcome users; at
other times they enlisted the aid of the city police to do
so. Trash cans mistakenly put on the property by the
city were ordered removed by respondents. The deed
executed in 1923 by John Taylor and Edith Taylor,
respondents predecessors in title, conveying to the City
of Coeur d'Alene a public right-of-way to the lake over
property located to the west of respondents' property
expressly limited the public rights to the narrow right of
way [594 P.2d 1101] and expressly prohibited
interference with the rights of the private owners. This
instrument, together with respondents' own affirmative
acts of dominion and unequivocal testimony at trial
negative any intent to dedicate the property to the
public.
C. Custom.
Another theory advanced by appellant is that the public
has by customary usage acquired recreation rights to
respondents' property. This theory is based upon the
English common law of custom, defined as: "a usage or
practice of the people, which, by common adoption and
acquiescence, and by long and unvarying habit, has
become compulsory, and has acquired the force of a law
with respect to the place or subject-matter to which it
relates." Black's Law Dictionary 461 (rev. 4th ed. 1968).
By the law of custom, the general public could, after
many years of unrestricted common usage, acquire
rights over private property. Post v. Pearsall, 22 Wend.
425 (N.Y.Ct.Err. 1839); 2 W. Blackstone, Commentaries
263; 2 G. Thompson, supra, § 335.
The acquisition of a right through custom in England
required that the use "must have continued from time
immemorial, without interruption, and as a right; it
must be certain as to the place, and as to the persons;
and it must be certain and reasonable as to the subject
matter or rights created." 3 H. Tiffany, Law of Real
Property, § 935 at 623 (3d ed. 1939). See also 1 W.
Blackstone, Commentaries 75-78; 3 Powell, supra, §
414[9]; Public Access to Beaches, 22 Stanford L.Rev.
564, 582 (1970); 25 Univ. of Florida L.Rev. 586, 591
(1973). Virtually all commentators are agreed that, until
recently, the law of custom was a dead letter in the
United States. Aside from two New Hampshire cases
decided in the 1850's no state had applied the doctrine.
As recently as 1935 New York refused to accept
customary usage as a means of claiming an easement in a
private beach for bathing and boating. Gillies v. Orienta
Beach Club, 159 Misc. 675, 289 N.Y.S. 733 (1935). The
doctrine was exhumed, however, by the Supreme Court
of Oregon in State ex rel. Thornton v. Hay, 254 Or. 584,
462 P.2d 671 (1969), where it was held that the public
had acquired customary rights to a privately owned dry
sand stretch of beach on the Oregon sea coast. Because
of the tract-by-tract limitations inherent in the
prescription theory, the Oregon court chose to apply
custom to claimed public use of oceanfront lands.
Whether the doctrine exists in this state is a matter of
first impression. I.C. § 73-116 provides that "[t]he
common law of England, so far as it is not repugnant to,
or inconsistent with, the constitution or laws of the
United States, in all cases not provided for in these
compiled laws, is the rule of decision in all courts of this
state." There being no statute which expressly or
impliedly rejects the doctrine of custom, this court is of
opinion that the doctrine does obtain in Idaho. See
Industrial Indem. Co. v. Columbia Basin Steel & Iron,
Inc., 93 Idaho 719, 471 P.2d 574 (1970).
The district court applied the law of custom to the facts
of this case and concluded that the requisite elements
had not been established. The first element, use from
time immemorial, means that the use has existed for so
long that "the memory of man runneth not to the
contrary." State ex rel. Thornton v. Hay, supra, 462 P.2d
at 677. In the instant case, the district court found that
usage commenced as early as 1912. We agree with the
district court that this does not constitute "from time
immemorial." The second requirement, that the use
must be uninterrupted, is not met because of the fact
that respondents had personally and with police
assistance removed members of the public from their
land. Without further burdening this opinion, suffice it
to say that of the seven essential elements of a customary
right, the trial court found adversely to appellant on six
of them. We find ample evidence in the record to
support the findings, and we therefore affirm the district
court's denial of any customary rights in this case.
D. Public Trust.
Appellant's final argument is that respondents' lake
front property is imbued [594 P.2d 1102] with a public
trust under the principles of the public trust doctrine.
That doctrine's leading authority, Professor Sax of the
University of Michigan School of Law, articulates the
following as the "central substantive thought in public
trust litigation":
[w]hen a state holds a resource which is available for the free use of
the general public, a court will look with considerable skepticism
upon any governmental conduct which is calculated either to
relocate that resource to more restricted uses or to subject public
uses to the self-interest of private parties.
J. Sax, The Public Trust Doctrine in Natural Resource
Law: Effective Judicial Intervention, 68 Mich.L.Rev.
473, 490 (1970) (emphasis in text).
It is undisputed that the land in contention here is
private property, traceable to a patent from the United
States Government in 1892. It is also undisputed that
the seawall constructed by respondents lies above the
ordinary mean high water mark of the lake and that it in
no way interferes with navigability or the public's use of
the lake's waters. Since no natural resource owned by
the state is involved here the public trust doctrine is
inapposite. The district court judgment is affirmed in all
respects. Costs to respondents.