At issue on this appeal from a suit brought to recover
"double indemnity" insurance benefits is the propriety of
a grant of summary judgment in favor of J.C. Penney
Insurance Company, Guardsman Life Insurance
Company and Old Republic Life Insurance Company
(appellees) against the Valley National Bank of Arizona,
as personal representative of the estate of Sharon G.
Seay (appellant).
On June 14, 1975, Frank O. Seay, Jr., his wife Sharon G.
Seay, and step-daughter, Sheri Lynn Seay, departed
Phoenix, Arizona, in their travel camper for what was
scheduled to be a two-week camping trip in Baja
California, Mexico. When the Seays failed to return to
Phoenix within that time, a search effort was conducted.
The search failed to turn up any trace of the missing
trio. In December of 1975, however, two persons hiking
in Baja happened upon a campsite which included a
makeshift shelter made from a sleeping bag, a camera
with film, several fired bullet casings, and parts of a
human skeleton. The skeletal remains were brought into
this country and taken to the San Diego County
Coroner, where they were determined to be those of
Frank Seay, Jr. The coroner's report indicated that the
cause of death was "undeterminable". This discovery
prompted another search which again failed to reveal
any sign of the travel camper or of Sharon or Sheri Seay.
Their whereabouts remain unknown and they have
since been declared legally dead.
At the time of his death, Frank Seay, Jr. had life
insurance policies in force with appellees J.C. Penney,
Guardsman and Old Republic,
1 
 which provided death
benefits of $5,000 each for the Guardsman and Old
Republic policies and $10,000 for the J.C. Penney policy.
In addition, each of the policies provided for double
indemnity in the event of accidental death. Appellees
tendered payment of the death benefits but refused
payment under the double indemnity provisions,
contending that appellant had failed to provide any
evidence of "accidental" death.
Appellant filed suit on November 22, 1977 to compel
payment of the additional benefits, along with attorney's
fees and costs. Appellees filed a motion for summary
judgment, which the trial court granted on July 5, 1978.
Appellant's new trial motion was denied, and appellees'
motion for an award of attorney's fees pursuant to
A.R.S. 
ยง
 12-341.01 was granted in the amount of
$5,639.60. Appellant appeals the summary judgment and
award of attorney's fees. We reverse.
The double indemnity provisions of the insurance
policies are activated only if the insured's death was
accidental.
2 
 Under the terms of the J.C. Penney and Old
Republic policies the insured must suffer an injury
which directly results in death. Injury is defined as
"bodily injury caused by an accident." In both of these
policies, the insurer is accorded the right to perform an
autopsy to verify that an accidental injury did in fact
cause the insured's death. Seay's 
[129 Ariz. 110]
Guardsman policy is similar in its requirement that
accidental death benefits will be paid if the insured's
death is the result of accidental bodily injury
independent of other causes. Under two of the policies,
Guardsman and Old Republic, "due proof" is required.
Further, under the Guardsman policy, the injury must
be evidenced by visible damage to the exterior of the
body except in the instance of drowning or internal
injuries and these must be verified by an autopsy.
3
Under the summary judgment disposition then, our
seminal inquiry is: Taking the evidence and inferences
presented in a light most favorable to appellant, does a
genuine issue of material fact exist as to whether Seay's
death was accidental? We think it is beyond question
that it does.
The rather bizarre circumstances of Seay's death have
already been set forth. It is uncontroverted that no one,
not even the coroner's office in San Diego was able to
resolve the fact question as to the cause of death. Both
sides agree, and the law is well established, that
appellant has the burden of proving that death resulted
from accidental rather than natural causes, within the
coverage of and as defined by the clauses of the
insurance policies. As was stated in New York Life
Insurance Co. v. Greber, 55 Ariz. 261, 100 P.2d 987
(1940):
When double indemnity is claimed for an accidental death under a
policy like that involved herein, it is incumbent upon the
beneficiary to establish affirmatively and by a reasonable
preponderance of the evidence that the death of the insured
resulted from the specific cause of death set forth in the double
indemnity clause. (Emphasis added). Id. at 262, 100 P.2d at 987.
Watkins v. Underwriters at Lloyds, London, 107 Ariz.
56, 481 P.2d 849 (1971); New York Life Insurance Co. v.
McNeely, 52 Ariz. 181, 79 P.2d 948 (1938); Young v.
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company of California, 40
Ariz. 10, 9 P.2d 191 (1932); 21 J. Appleman, Insurance
Law and Practice 
ยง
 12142. At the summary judgment
state of the proceedings, however, this burden is simply
to raise a genuine issue of material fact, not to test the
sufficiency of the evidence. Mitchell v. Mitchell, 12 N.C.
App. 54, 182 S.E.2d 627 (1971). Moreover, as was noted
in Northern Contracting Company v. Allis-Chalmers
Corporation, 117 Ariz. 374, 573 P.2d 65 (1977): "Even if
there is no factual dispute, where possible inferences to
be drawn from the circumstances are conflicting, a
summary disposition is unwarranted." Id. at 376, 573
P.2d at 67. Executive Towers v. Leonard, 7 Ariz.App.
331, 439 P.2d 303 (1968).
[129 Ariz. 111]
 Appellees do not dispute the authorities
as to multiple inferences to be drawn from undisputed
evidence. Rather, they argue that the trial court
correctly granted summary judgment since appellant
failed to present any evidence whatsoever that Seay's
death resulted from accidental rather than natural
causes. They assert that the circumstances here show
equal support for opposing conclusions, since the facts
are totally inconclusive as to cause of death, and
therefore a court or jury could only speculate on the
question. In support of this argument they point out
that the only evidence brought forward by appellant was
that Frank Seay was in good health when he left for
Mexico. They contend, however, that this evidence was
too remote in time to be of any use, since it consisted of
medical reports dated approximately three years prior to
his death, and further, that such evidence would be
insufficient to raise an inference in any event.
Additionally, appellees cite to various cases holding that,
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, death is
presumed to be the result of natural causes. Continental
Assurance Co. v. Rothell, 227 Ga. 258, 181 S.E.2d 283
(1971), Johnson v. Aetna Life Insurance Company, 24
Ga.App. 431, 101 S.E. 134 (1919), See 21 J. Appleman,
Insurance Law and Practice, 
ยง
 12145. We have
examined these authorities and find them to be
inapposite to the situation here.
As in all civil or criminal cases, the burden of proving
accidental death may be discharged by circumstantial
evidence. Furthermore, the insurance policies do not
contain any requirement that the precise cause of death
be established by medical expertise. It is true that the
Guardsman policy requires evidence of visible
contusions or wounds on the exterior of the body, but
we hold that this provision is non-exclusive, since it
does not preclude proof of accidental death by other
means. Moreover, only skeletal remains were found and
visible contusions or wounds on the body could not be
shown. See Annot. Construction And Effect Of "Visible
Sign Of Injury" And Similar Clauses In Accident
Provision Of Insurance Policy, 28 A.L.R.3d 413, cf.
Siracusa v. Prudential Insurance Company of America,
211 La. 1066, 31 So.2d 213 (1947) (where evidence
showed death was by foul play, inability to show
contusions due to deteriorated state of body did not
preclude recovery under accidental death policy
provision).
Appellant, in support of its position that the evidence
here clearly raises an inference of accidental death, refers
us to cases from other states where circumstantial
evidence was found to support a jury verdict of death by
accidental means. In Martin v. Insurance Company of
North America, 1 Wn.App. 218, 460 P.2d 682 (1969),
the plaintiff's husband had embarked on a hunting trip.
At that time, he was 28 years old, with no apparent
family or financial problems, and in good physical
condition. He was last seen alive in a rugged mountain
area, under inclement weather without a compass, when
he inquired as to directions. After his disappearance, an
organized search on foot by several hundred persons
failed to reveal any trace of him, his clothing or
equipment. His body was never found. A jury found his
death to have been accidental, but the court entered
judgment in favor of the defendant, non obstante
veredicto. Plaintiff appealed.
The appeals court first noted that:
The ultimate fact which plaintiff had the burden of proving was the
accidental death of Wagner M. Robinson, Jr. Because his body has
never been found, such proof was necessarily limited to
circumstantial evidence. 1 Wash. App. at 221, 460 P.2d at 684.
The court went on to hold:
[W]e find strong circumstances pointing either toward death by
accident in the technical manner viewed by the trial court or by
accidental death due to unavoidable exposure to the elements. In
that sense, we cannot agree with eminently learned trial court that
circumstances proved show equal support to opposing conclusions.
It is not our function, however, to weigh the evidence. Rather, it is
our function only to ascertain whether 
[129 Ariz. 112]
 the evidence,
considered in the light most favorable toward plaintiff affords room
for men of reasonable minds to conclude that there is a greater
probability that the ultimate fact did happen than it did not happen.
This, we do find under the law of the case and the evidence in the
record. 1 Wash. App. at 223, 460 P.2d at 685-686. (emphasis added)
A similar disappearance case is Englehart v. General
Electric Corporation, 11 Wn.App. 922, 527 P.2d 685
(1974), where the insured had gone fishing. In the
evening his boat was observed drifting with the
mooring lines fastened, the ignition key on, the throttle
partially open and the gas tank empty. His body was
never found. At trial the court accepted evidence that he
was in good spirits, happily employed with no history of
heart disease. The jury found from all the evidence that
he had died from accidental causes. This finding was
affirmed on appeal.
While it is true, as noted by appellees, that in both
Martin and Englehart the insured was seen shortly
before his disappearance and in the instant case weeks
had elapsed, it is also true that a major question in the
referenced cases arose as to whether the insured was
actually dead or had intentionally disappeared. Here
there is no question that Frank Seay is dead.
We find the language in Martin to be highly persuasive.
In our opinion, an accidental death may likewise be
reasonably inferred from the circumstances here.
Viewed in the light most favorable toward appellant, we
do not find these facts to show equal support for
opposing conclusions. The total disappearance of the
wife and step-daughter and decedent's truck during the
same time interval, coupled with the scene at the skeletal
remains, to us present a strong inference that Seay's
death was not from natural causes. More than this the
evidence need not do. A court or jury could reasonably
infer from these circumstances that he had not died a
natural death. See 10 Couch on Insurance 2d 
ยง
 41:43.
The judgment and award of attorney's fees are therefore
reversed and the cause remanded to superior court for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
CONTRERAS, P.J., and FROEB, J., concur.