Plaintiffs, Richard E. and Margaret Schultz, instituted
this action to recover damages for personal injuries they
and their sons, Richard and Christopher, suffered
because the boys were sexually abused by defendant
Edmund Coakeley and for damages sustained as a result
of Christopher's wrongful death after he committed
suicide. Coakeley, a brother in the Franciscan order, was
the boys' school teacher and leader of their scout troop.
Plaintiffs allege that the sexual abuse occurred while
Coakeley was acting in those capacities and the causes of
action before us on this appeal charge defendants Boy
Scouts of America, Inc., and the Brothers of the Poor of
St. Francis, Inc. (sued as Franciscan Brothers of the
Poor, Inc.), with negligently hiring and supervising him.
Plaintiffs are domiciled in New Jersey and some of the
injuries were sustained there. Thus, a choice-of-law
issue is presented because New Jersey recognizes the
doctrine of charitable immunity and New York does
not. Defendants contend New Jersey law governs this
litigation and that its courts have already determined
that plaintiffs' claims are barred in a separate action
against the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Newark
(see, Schultz v Roman Catholic Archdiocese, 95 N.J.
530, 472 A.2d 531). Following the rationale of Babcock
v Jackson (12 N.Y.2d 473) and similar cases, we hold
that New Jersey law applies and that plaintiffs are
precluded from relitigating its effect on the claims they
assert.
I
In 1978 plaintiffs were residents of Emerson, New
Jersey, where their two sons, Richard, age 13, and
Christopher, age 11, [65 N.Y.2d 193] attended
Assumption School, an institution owned and operated
by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Newark. By an
agreement with the Archdiocese, defendant Brothers of
the Poor of St. Francis, Inc., supplied teachers for the
school. One of those assigned was Brother Edmund
Coakeley, who also served as the scoutmaster of Boy
Scout Troop 337, a locally chartered Boy Scout troop
sponsored and approved by defendant Boy Scouts of
America. Richard and Christopher attended Coakeley's
class and were members of his scout troop.
In July 1978 Coakeley took Christopher Schultz to Pine
Creek Reservation, a Boy Scout camp located in upstate
New York near the Oneida County community of
Foresport. The camp was located on land owned by
Peter Grandy, who was also a resident of Emerson, New
Jersey.1 The complaint alleges that while at the camp,
Coakeley sexually abused Christopher, that he continued
to do so when Christopher returned to Assumption
School in New Jersey that fall and that he threatened
Christopher with harm if he revealed what had
occurred. The complaint also alleges that Coakeley
sexually abused Richard Schultz and made similar
threats to him during a scout trip to Pine Creek
Reservation on Memorial Day weekend in 1978.
Plaintiffs claim that as a result of Coakeley's acts both
boys suffered severe psychological, emotional and
mental pain and suffering and that as a result of the
distress Coakeley's acts caused, Christopher Schultz
committed suicide by ingesting drugs on May 29, 1979.
They charge both defendants with negligence in
assigning Coakeley to positions of trust where he could
molest young boys and in failing to dismiss him despite
actual or constructive notice that Coakeley had
previously been dismissed from another Boy Scout camp
for similar improper conduct.
The complaint contains four causes of action. In the first
two, plaintiff Richard E. Schultz, as administrator of
Christopher's estate, seeks damages for Christopher's
wrongful death and for his psychological, emotional and
physical injuries prior to death. In the third cause of
action, plaintiff Richard E. Schultz, suing as father and
natural guardian, seeks damages for similar personal
injuries on behalf of his son Richard. In the fourth cause
of action, plaintiffs seek damages for their own injuries,
including destruction of their family life, expenditures
for medical and psychological care and treatment,
mental anguish and psychological injuries.
[65 N.Y.2d 194] After answering, defendants moved for
summary judgment, urging that plaintiffs' claims were
barred by New Jersey's charitable immunity statute (NJ
Stat Ann § 2A:53A-7) and that plaintiffs were
collaterally estopped from relitigating the application of
the statute because of the prior New Jersey judgment. In
opposition, plaintiffs contended that under applicable
choice-of-law principles, New York should apply its
law, not that of New Jersey, and, alternatively, that even
if the New Jersey charitable immunity statute applies
under choice-of-law rules, the New York courts should
refuse to enforce it on public policy grounds. Special
Term granted defendants' motions, severing plaintiffs'
causes of action and dismissing the complaint against
them on collateral estoppel grounds, implicitly finding
New Jersey law applicable. A divided Appellate Division
affirmed.
II
A
The choice-of-law question presented in the action
against defendant Boy Scouts of America is whether
New York should apply its law in an action involving
codomiciliaries of New Jersey when tortious acts were
committed in New York. This is the posture of the
appeal although defendant is a Federally chartered
corporation created exclusively for educational and
charitable purposes pursuant to an act of Congress (see,
36 USC § 21) that originally maintained its national
headquarters in New Brunswick, New Jersey, but moved
to Dallas, Texas, in 1979. New Jersey is considered
defendant's domicile because its national headquarters
was in that State (see, Rosenbaum v Union Pac. R. R.
Co., 2 How Prac [NS] 45, affd 100 N.Y. 617; 13 NY Jur
2d, Business Relationships, § 146, at 421). Its change of
domicile after the commission of the wrongs from New
Jersey to Texas, which no longer recognizes the doctrine
of charitable immunity (see, Howle v Camp Amon
Carter, 470 S.W.2d 629 [Tex 1971]), provides New
York with no greater interest in this action than it
would have without the change. Our decision
recognizing a postaccident change in domicile in Miller
v Miller (22 N.Y.2d 12) is distinguishable because in that
case the defendant's domicile was changed to New York,
which was the forum and also the plaintiff's domicile.
The question presented in the action against defendant
Franciscan Brothers is what law should apply when the
parties' different domiciles have conflicting charitable
immunity rules. The Franciscan order is incorporated in
Ohio and it is a domiciliary of that State (see, Sease v
Central Greyhound Lines, 306 N.Y. 284, 286; [65
N.Y.2d 195] 13 NY Jur 2d, Business Relationships, §
142, at 416-417). At the time these causes of action arose
Ohio, like New Jersey, recognized charitable immunity
(see, Williams v First United Church, 40 Ohio App.2d
187, 318 N.E.2d 562, affd37 Ohio St.2d 150, 309 N.E.2d
924 [1973]; Gibbon v Young Women's Christian Assn.,
170 Ohio St. 280, 164 N.E.2d 563 [1960]; but see,
Albritton v Neighborhood Centers Assn. for Child Dev.,
12 Ohio St.3d 210, 466 N.E.2d 867 [1984] [abolishing
common-law doctrine of charitable immunity for
nonhospital charities]). The Ohio rule denied immunity
in actions based on negligent hiring and supervision,
however (see, Gibbon v Young Women's Christian
Assn., supra), whereas New Jersey does not (see, Schultz
v Roman Catholic Archdiocese, 95 N.J. 530, 472 A.2d
531, supra). For this reason, no doubt, defendant
Franciscan Brothers does not claim Ohio law governs
and the choice is between the law of New York and the
law of New Jersey.
As for the locus of the tort, both parties and the dissent
implicitly assume it is New York because most of
Coakeley's acts were committed here. Under traditional
rules, the law of the place of the wrong governs all
substantive issues in the action (see, Kaufman v
American Youth Hostels, 5 N.Y.2d 1016), but when the
defendant's negligent conduct occurs in one jurisdiction
and the plaintiff's injuries are suffered in another, the
place of the wrong is considered to be the place where
the last event necessary to make the actor liable occurred
(see, Poplar v Bourjois, Inc., 298 N.Y. 62; Conklin v
Canadian-Colonial Airways, 266 N.Y. 244; Hunter v
Derby Foods, 110 F.2d 970 [2d Cir]). Thus, the locus in
this case is determined by where the plaintiffs' injuries
occurred.
The first and fourth causes of action, the wrongful death
of Christopher and plaintiffs' own psychological and
other injuries respectively, allege injuries inflicted in
New Jersey. New York's only interests in these claims
are as the forum State and as the jurisdiction where the
tortious conduct underlying plaintiffs' claims against
defendants, i.e., the negligent assignment and failure to
dismiss Coakeley, occurred. Standing alone, these
interests are insufficient to warrant application of New
York law, at least when the relevant issue is a lossdistribution
rule, like charitable immunity, rather than
one regulating conduct (cf.Long v Pan Am. World
Airways, 16 N.Y.2d 337, 342-343). The second and third
causes of action seek damages for the psychological,
emotional and physical injuries suffered by Christopher
and Richard Schultz, injuries which occurred in both
New York and New Jersey, because a fair reading of the
complaint indicates that both boys suffered injuries
when Coakeley molested [65 N.Y.2d 196] them and also
after they returned home. These two causes of action
sufficiently implicate New York's interests to require a
resolution of the choice-of-law problem in the case.
B
Historically, choice-of-law conflicts in tort actions have
been resolved by applying the law of the place of the
wrong. In Babcock v Jackson (12 N.Y.2d 473, supra), we
departed from traditional doctrine, however, and
refused to invariably apply the rule of lex loci delicti to
determine the availability of relief for commission of a
tort. In doing so, we applied New York law to an action
involving New York parties in which recovery was
sought for injuries received in an automobile accident in
Ontario, Canada. Ontario's guest statute barred recovery
by the plaintiff passenger but we refused to apply
Ontario law in the New York action, holding that
"controlling effect" must be given "to the law of the
jurisdiction which, because of its relationship or contact
with the occurrence or the parties, has the greatest
concern with the specific issue raised in the litigation"
(Babcock v Jackson, supra, at p 481). Employing this
"grouping of contacts" and "interest analysis", we noted
that New York was where the parties were domiciled,
where the automobile involved was garaged, licensed
and insured, where the guest-host relationship arose and
where the trip began and was to end, whereas Ontario's
only contact with the case was the "purely adventitious"
occurrence of the accident there (see, Babcock v Jackson,
supra, at pp 482-483). Key, however, was New York's
interest in requiring a tort-feasor to compensate his
guest for injuries caused by his negligence. That concern
would have been completely thwarted if Ontario's laws
were applied to the action, whereas the application of
New York's law would not threaten the policy
underlying Ontario's statute, its interest in preventing
fraudulent claims against its defendants and their
insurer (see, id., at pp 482-483).
The analysis was flexible and to the extent that it may
have placed too much emphasis on contact-counting
without specifying the relative significance of those
contacts, the necessary refinements were added in later
decisions of this court. In four of the five subsequent
tort cases presenting the same Babcock-style fact pattern
of common New York domiciliaries and a foreign locus
having loss-distribution rules in conflict with those of
New York we reached results consistent with Babcock
and applied New York law (see, Tooker v Lopez, 24
N.Y.2d 569 [Michigan guest statute]; Miller v Miller, 22
N.Y.2d 12, supra [Maine damage limitation in wrongful
death action]; Farber v Smolack, 20 N.Y.2d 198 [65
N.Y.2d 197] [North Carolina statute on vicarious
liability of automobile owner for negligence of driver];
Macey v Rozbicki, 18 N.Y.2d 289 [Ontario guest
statute]). In the fifth case, the first decided after
Babcock, we applied the law of the foreign locus,
including its restrictive guest statute (see, Dym v
Gordon, 16 N.Y.2d 120). Although our opinion in Dym
attempted to distinguish Babcock, we subsequently
concluded that our reading of the Colorado guest statute
in Dym was "mistaken" (see, Tooker v Lopez, 24 N.Y.2d
569, 575, supra). In each of the five cases, however, the
court rejected the indiscriminate grouping of contacts,
which in Babcock had been a consideration coequal to
interest analysis, because it bore no reasonable relation
to the underlying policies of conflicting rules of recovery
in tort actions (see, Tooker v Lopez, supra, at p 576;
Miller v Miller, supra, at pp 15-16). Interest analysis
became the relevant analytical approach to choice of law
in tort actions in New York. "[T]he law of the
jurisdiction having the greatest interest in the litigation
will be applied and * * * the [only] facts or contacts
which obtain significance in defining State interests are
those which relate to the purpose of the particular law
in conflict" (Miller v Miller, supra, at pp 15-16; see also,
Tooker v Lopez, supra, at pp 576-577; Macey v
Rozbicki, supra, at pp 296-298 [Keating, J.,
concurring]). Under this formulation, the significant
contacts are, almost exclusively, the parties' domiciles
and the locus of the tort (see, Tooker v Lopez, supra, at
pp 576-577; id., at pp 584-585 [Fuld, Ch. J., concurring];
Neumeier v Kuehner, 31 N.Y.2d 121, 128 [adopting the
three governing rules proposed in Tooker, the first and
third of which are pertinent to the facts of this appeal]).
Thus, under present rules, most of the nondomicile and
nonlocus contacts relied on in Babcock v Jackson
(supra), such as where the guest-host relationship arose
and where the journey was to begin and end, are no
longer controlling in tort actions involving guest
statutes (see, Tooker v Lopez, supra, at pp 577, 579, n
2). Both Tooker and Neumeier continued to place some
importance on where the automobile involved was
insured (see, Babcock v Jackson, supra, at pp 482-484),
but this is not inconsistent with the present rule because
usually a defendant host's automobile will be insured in
the State of his domicile and also because it reflects a
recognition that the insurer, rather than the individually
named defendant, is often "the real party in interest"
(Miller v Miller, supra, at p 21). Insofar as issues of
liability insurance might also be relevant in a case such
as the one before us involving charitable immunity, the
record provides no relevant information on the subject.
[65 N.Y.2d 198] These decisions also establish that the
relative interests of the domicile and locus jurisdictions
in having their laws apply will depend on the particular
tort issue in conflict in the case. Thus, when the
conflicting rules involve the appropriate standards of
conduct, rules of the road, for example, the law of the
place of the tort "will usually have a predominant, if not
exclusive, concern" (Babcock v Jackson, supra, at p 483;
see, Restatement [Second] of Conflicts of Law § 145
comment d, at 417-418) because the locus jurisdiction's
interests in protecting the reasonable expectations of the
parties who relied on it to govern their primary conduct
and in the admonitory effect that applying its law will
have on similar conduct in the future assume critical
importance and outweigh any interests of the commondomicile
jurisdiction (see, Babcock v Jackson, supra, at
pp 483-484; Restatement [Second] of Conflict of Laws §
145 comment d, at 417-418; id. § 146 comments d, e, at
431-433; see also, Miller v Miller, 22 N.Y.2d 12, 19,
supra). Conversely, when the jurisdictions' conflicting
rules relate to allocating losses that result from
admittedly tortious conduct, as they do here, rules such
as those limiting damages in wrongful death actions,
vicarious liability rules, or immunities from suit,
considerations of the State's admonitory interest and
party reliance are less important. Under those
circumstances, the locus jurisdiction has at best a
minimal interest in determining the right of recovery or
the extent of the remedy in an action by a foreign
domiciliary for injuries resulting from the conduct of a
codomiciliary that was tortious under the laws of both
jurisdictions (see, Tooker v Lopez, supra, at p 576;
Miller v Miller, supra, at pp 18-19; Babcock v Jackson,
supra, at p 482). Analysis then favors the jurisdiction of
common domicile because of its interest in enforcing
the decisions of both parties to accept both the benefits
and the burdens of identifying with that jurisdiction and
to submit themselves to its authority.2
These considerations made the need for change in the
lex loci delicti rule obvious in Babcock, but the validity
of this interest analysis is more clearly demonstrated in
the split domicile case of Neumeier v Kuehner (31
N.Y.2d 121, supra). In Neumeier we applied Ontario's
guest statute in an action on behalf of an Ontario
decedent against a New York defendant at least in part
because the Ontario statute, which contained reciprocal
benefits and burdens depending on one's status as either
host or guest, was "obviously addressed" to Ontario
domiciliaries such as [65 N.Y.2d 199] plaintiff's decedent
(id., at pp 125-126). In Babcock New York had an
important interest in protecting its own residents
injured in a foreign State against unfair or anachronistic
statutes of that State but it had no similar interest in
Neumeier in protecting a guest domiciled in Ontario
and injured there.
C
As to defendant Boy Scouts, this case is but a slight
variation of our Babcock line of decisions and differs
from them on only two grounds: (1) the issue involved
is charitable immunity rather than a guest statute, and
(2) it presents a fact pattern which one commentator has
characterized as a "reverse" Babcock case because New
York is the place of the tort rather than the jurisdiction
of the parties' common domicile (see, Korn, The
Choice-of-Law Revolution: A Critique, 83 Colum L Rev
772, 789).
Although most of our major choice-of-law decisions
after Babcock involved foreign guest statutes in actions
for personal injuries, we have not so limited them, but
have applied the Babcock reasoning to other tort issues
as well (see, Miller v Miller, 22 N.Y.2d 12, supra
[damage limitation in wrongful death action]; Farber v
Smolack, 20 N.Y.2d 198, supra [vicarious liability of
automobile owner for negligence of driver]; Long v
Pam Am. World Airways, 16 N.Y.2d 337, supra
[survivor statute and wrongful death damages]; Oltarsh
v Aetna Ins. Co., 15 N.Y.2d 111 [statute authorizing
direct action against liability insurer]; see also,
O'Connor v Lee-Hy Paving Corp., 579 F.2d 194 [2d
Cir], cert denied 439 U.S. 1034 [1978] [exclusivity of
workers' compensation death benefits for industrial
accident]; Rosenthal v Warren, 475 F.2d 438 [2d Cir]
[damage limitation in wrongful death action], on
remand374 F.Supp. 522 [SDNY] [charitable
immunity]). Nor is there any logical basis for
distinguishing guest statutes from other lossdistributing
rules because they all share the
characteristic of being postevent remedial rules designed
to allocate the burden of losses resulting from tortious
conduct in which the jurisdiction of the parties'
common domicile has a paramount interest. There is
even less reason for distinguishing Babcock here where
the conflicting rules involve the defense of charitable
immunity (see, Rosenthal v Warren, 374 F.Supp. 522
[SDNY], supra; Restatement [Second] of Conflict of
Laws § 145 comment d; id. § 168 comment b; Korn,
supra, at 787, 824). Both plaintiffs and defendant Boy
Scouts in this case have chosen to identify themselves in
the most concrete form possible, domicile, with a
jurisdiction that has weighed the interests of charitable
tort-feasors and their victims and decided [65 N.Y.2d
200] to retain the defense of charitable immunity.
Significantly, the New Jersey statute excepts from its
protection actions by nonbeneficiaries of the charity
who suffer injuries as a result of the negligence of its
employees or agents (see, NJ Stat Ann § 2A:53A-7).
Plaintiffs and their sons, however, were beneficiaries of
the Boy Scouts' charitable activities in New Jersey and
should be bound by the benefits and burdens of that
choice. Additionally, the State of New Jersey is
intimately interested in seeing that the parties'
associational interests are respected and its own lossdistributing
rules are enforced so that the underlying
policy, which is undoubtedly to encourage the growth of
charitable work within its borders, is effectuated.
Thus, if this were a straight Babcock fact pattern, rather
than the reverse, we would have no reason to depart
from the first Neumeier rule and would apply the law of
the parties' common domicile. Because this case presents
the first case for our review in which New York is the
forum-locus rather than the parties' common domicile,
however, we consider the reasons most often advanced
for applying the law of the forum-locus and those
supporting application of the law of the common
domicile.
The three reasons most often urged in support of
applying the law of the forum-locus in cases such as this
are: (1) to protect medical creditors who provided
services to injured parties in the locus State, (2) to
prevent injured tort victims from becoming public
wards in the locus State and (3) the deterrent effect
application of locus law has on future tort-feasors in the
locus State (see, Comments on Babcock v Jackson, A
Recent Development in Conflict of Laws, 63 Colum L
Rev 1212, 1222-1226, 1237-1238; Korn, supra, at 841,
962). The first two reasons share common weaknesses.
First, in the abstract, neither reason necessarily requires
application of the locus jurisdiction's law, but rather
invariably mandates application of the law of the
jurisdiction that would either allow recovery or allow
the greater recovery (see, Macey v Rozbicki, 18 N.Y.2d
289, 295, supra [Keating, J., concurring]; Dym v
Gordon, 16 N.Y.2d 120, 133, supra [Fuld, J.,
dissenting]). They are subject to criticism, therefore, as
being biased in favor of recovery. Second, on the facts of
this case neither reason is relevant since the record
contains no evidence that there are New York medical
creditors or that plaintiffs are or will likely become
wards of this State. Finally, although it is conceivable
that application of New York's law in this case would
have some deterrent effect on future tortious conduct in
this State, New York's deterrent interest is considerably
less because none of the parties is a resident and the rule
in conflict is loss-allocating rather than conductregulating.
[65 N.Y.2d 201] Conversely, there are persuasive reasons
for consistently applying the law of the parties' common
domicile. First, it significantly reduces forum-shopping
opportunities, because the same law will be applied by
the common-domicile and locus jurisdictions, the two
most likely forums. Second, it rebuts charges that the
forum-locus is biased in favor of its own laws and in
favor of rules permitting recovery. Third, the concepts
of mutuality and reciprocity support consistent
application of the common-domicile law. In any given
case, one person could be either plaintiff or defendant
and one State could be either the parties' common
domicile or the locus, and yet the applicable law would
not change depending on their status. Finally, it
produces a rule that is easy to apply and brings a
modicum of predictability and certainty to an area of the
law needing both.
As to defendant Franciscan Brothers, this action
requires an application of the third of the rules set forth
in Neumeier because the parties are domiciled in
different jurisdictions with conflicting loss-distribution
rules and the locus of the tort is New York, a separate
jurisdiction. In that situation the law of the place of the
tort will normally apply, unless displacing it "`will
advance' the relevant substantive law purposes without
impairing the smooth working of the multi-state system
or producing great uncertainty for litigants'" (Neumeier
v Kuehner, supra, at p 128). For the same reasons stated
in our analysis of the action against defendant Boy
Scouts, application of the law of New Jersey in plaintiffs'
action against defendant Franciscan Brothers would
further that State's interest in enforcing the decision of
its domiciliaries to accept the burdens as well as the
benefits of that State's loss-distribution tort rules and its
interest in promoting the continuation and expansion of
defendant's charitable activities in that State.
Conversely, although application of New Jersey's law
may not affirmatively advance the substantive law
purposes of New York, it will not frustrate those
interests because New York has no significant interest in
applying its own law to this dispute. Finally, application
of New Jersey law will enhance "the smooth working of
the multi-state system" by actually reducing the
incentive for forum shopping and it will provide
certainty for the litigants whose only reasonable
expectation3 surely would have been that the law of the
[65 N.Y.2d 202] jurisdiction where plaintiffs are
domiciled and defendant sends its teachers would apply,
not the law of New York where the parties had only
isolated and infrequent contacts as a result of Coakeley's
position as Boy Scout leader. Thus, we conclude that
defendant Franciscan Brothers has met its burden of
demonstrating that the law of New Jersey, rather than
the law of New York, should govern plaintiffs' action
against it.
III
Plaintiffs contend that even if the New Jersey charitable
immunity statute is applicable to this action, it should
not be enforced because it is contrary to the public
policy of New York.
The public policy doctrine is an exception to
implementing an otherwise applicable choice of law in
which the forum refuses to apply a portion of foreign
law because it is contrary or repugnant to its State's own
public policy (see, Paulsen & Sovern, "Public Policy" in
the Conflict of Laws, 56 Colum L Rev 969). The
doctrine is considered only after the court has
determined that the applicable substantive law under
relevant choice-of-law principles is not the forum's law.
Having found that, the court must enforce the foreign
law "unless some sound reason of public policy makes it
unwise for us to lend our aid" (Loucks v Standard Oil
Co., 224 N.Y. 99, 110 [Cardozo, J.]).
The party seeking to invoke the doctrine has the burden
of proving that the foreign law is contrary to New York
public policy. It is a heavy burden for public policy is not
measured by individual notions of expediency and
fairness or by a showing that the foreign law is
unreasonable or unwise (Loucks v Standard Oil Co.,
supra, at p 111). Public policy is found in the State's
Constitution, statutes and judicial decisions and the
proponent of the exception must establish that to
enforce the foreign law "would violate some
fundamental principle of justice, some prevalent
conception of good morals, some deep-rooted tradition
of the common weal" expressed in them (Loucks v
Standard Oil Co., supra, at p 111; see also, Matter of
Walker, 64 N.Y.2d 354; Shannon v Irving Trust Co.,
275 N.Y. 95, 103). In addition, the proponent must
establish that there are enough important contacts
between the parties, the occurrence and the New York
forum to implicate our public policy and thus preclude
enforcement of the foreign law (see, Paulsen & Sovern,
supra, at 981).4
[65 N.Y.2d 203] When we have employed the exception
in the past and refused to enforce otherwise applicable
foreign law, the contacts between the New York forum,
the parties and the transaction involved were substantial
enough to threaten our public policy. Thus, in Kilberg v
Northeast Airlines (9 N.Y.2d 34), we found the law of
the place of tort, Massachusetts, appropriate to a
wrongful death action but refused to apply its statutory
limit on damages because it was contrary to New York
public policy, expressed in our State Constitution,
prohibiting limitations on such damages. Insofar as the
decedent was a resident, who had purchased his ticket
and boarded his flight in New York and the defendant
carried on extensive operations here, New York's
interest in providing its residents with full
compensation for wrongful death was jeopardized and
led us to reject the Massachusetts limitation.
Similarly, in Mertz v Mertz (271 N.Y. 466) and Straus &
Co. v Canadian Pac. Ry. Co. (254 N.Y. 407), this State's
public policy was seriously threatened because it was
intimately connected to the parties and the transaction.
In Mertz we refused to follow Connecticut law that
permitted a wife to sue her husband for negligently
inflicted injuries caused there because New York's law
was just the opposite and the parties were both New
York domiciliaries. In Straus & Co., we refused to
enforce a contractual provision releasing the defendant
shipper from liability for its own negligence, valid under
otherwise applicable British law but invalid under the
laws of New York, when the plaintiff was a New York
company, the final place of shipment was New York,
and the defendant had chosen to do business here by
way of shipping goods into the State.
Thus, although New York discarded the doctrine of
charitable immunity long ago (see, Bing v Thunig, 2
N.Y.2d 656, 667) and enforcement of New Jersey's
statute might well run counter to our fundamental
public policy, we need not decide that issue because
there are not sufficient contacts between New York, the
parties and the transactions involved to implicate our
public policy and call for its enforcement.
[65 N.Y.2d 204] IV
Finally, defendants contend that inasmuch as New
Jersey law governs this action, plaintiffs are estopped
under the doctrine of third-party issue preclusion from
relitigating the effect of the New Jersey charitable
immunity statute by their earlier New Jersey court
action.
The full faith and credit clause of the Federal
Constitution requires the courts of each State to give to
the judgments of other States the same conclusive effect
between the parties as such judgments are given in the
States in which they are rendered (Semler v Psychiatric
Inst., 575 F.2d 922, 927 [DC Cir]; see, Durfee v Duke,
375 U.S. 106, 109; Restatement [Second] of Conflict of
Laws § 95). Our decision therefore will be determined
by whether the courts of New Jersey would hold
plaintiffs barred by the prior action.
New Jersey has adopted the general principles governing
third-party issue preclusion set forth in Restatement
(Second) of Judgments § 29 (see, State v Gonzalez, 75
N.J. 181, 188-190, 380 A.2d 1128, 1132; United Rental
Equip. Co. v Aetna Life & Cas. Ins. Co., 74 N.J. 92, 101,
376 A.2d 1183, 1188). For collateral estoppel to apply,
therefore, three criteria must be met: (1) the issue must
actually have been litigated and determined by a valid
and final judgment in a separate action, (2) that
determination must have been essential to the judgment
and (3) either the party to be precluded had a full and
fair opportunity to litigate the issue in the prior
proceeding or other circumstances do not justify
affording him an opportunity to relitigate it (see,
Restatement [Second] of Judgments §§ 27, 29; State v
Gonzalez, supra, at pp 188-192, at pp 1132-1133; see
also, Koch v Consolidated Edison Co., 62 N.Y.2d 548,
554-555).
The issue presented to us, whether plaintiffs' claims
against these defendants are barred by the New Jersey
charitable immunity statute, was actually litigated and
determined by a final judgment of its courts. A
comparison of plaintiffs' complaint in the New Jersey
action and the one before us demonstrate that they are
the same except for minor differences reflecting the
different defendants. One of the specific issues contested
in New Jersey was whether its statute provided
immunity in actions alleging negligent hiring and
supervision and the court dismissed the complaint
(Schultz v Roman Catholic Archdiocese, 95 N.J. 530,
472 A.2d 531, supra). Moreover, plaintiffs have never
disputed that defendants are charitable organizations
entitled to the protection of the New Jersey statute, nor
have they presented any facts warranting a conclusion
that they [65 N.Y.2d 205] lacked a full and fair
opportunity to litigate the issue in the prior action or
that other circumstances justify according them an
opportunity to relitigate it in New York. On the
contrary, the record indicates that plaintiffs relied on
their New Jersey action and vigorously pursued their
claims there. Although they commenced this action
approximately one month before the one in New Jersey,
plaintiffs requested and obtained a stay of it pending
final determination of their New Jersey action and they
were given the opportunity to fully present their
arguments against application of the charitable
immunity statute before that State's highest court.
Plaintiffs are correct that collateral estoppel would not
apply if we applied New York law or refused to enforce
the New Jersey statute on public policy grounds (see,
State v Gonzalez, supra, at pp 188-192, at pp 1132-1133;
Schwartz v Public Administrator, 24 N.Y.2d 65, 72;
Restatement [Second] of Judgments § 29 [7]). We have
resolved those issues against them, however.
Accordingly, the order of the Appellate Division should
be affirmed, with costs.