In what may be the largest class action ever attempted in
federal court, the district court in this case embarked "on
a road certainly less traveled, if ever taken at all,"
Castano v. American Tobacco Co., 160 F.R.D. 544, 560
(E.D.La.1995) (citing EDWARD C. LATHAM, THE
POETRY OF ROBERT FROST, "THE ROAD NOT
TAKEN" 105 (1969)), and entered a class certification
order. The court defined the class as:
(a) All nicotine-dependent persons in the United States ... who have
purchased and smoked cigarettes manufactured by the defendants;
(b) the estates, representatives, and administrators of these
nicotine-dependent cigarette smokers; and
(c) the spouses, children, relatives and "significant others" of these
nicotine-dependent cigarette smokers as their heirs or survivors.
Id. at 560-61. The plaintiffs limit the claims to years
since 1943.1
This matter comes before us on interlocutory appeal,
under 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b), of the class certification
order. Concluding that the district court abused its
discretion in certifying the class, we reverse.
I.
A. The Class Complaint
The plaintiffs2 filed this class complaint against the
defendant tobacco companies3 and the Tobacco
Institute, Inc., seeking compensation solely for the
injury of nicotine addiction. The gravamen of their
complaint is the novel and wholly untested theory that
the defendants fraudulently failed to inform consumers
that nicotine is addictive and manipulated the level of
nicotine in cigarettes to sustain their addictive nature.
The class complaint alleges nine causes of action: fraud
and deceit, negligent misrepresentation, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, negligence and negligent
infliction of emotional distress, violation of state
consumer protection statutes, breach of express
warranty, breach of implied warranty, strict product
liability, and redhibition pursuant to the Louisiana Civil
Code.
The plaintiffs seek compensatory4 and punitive
damages5 and attorneys' fees.6 In [84 F.3d 738] addition,
the plaintiffs seek equitable relief for fraud and deceit,
negligent misrepresentation, violation of consumer
protection statutes, and breach of express and implied
warranty. The equitable remedies include a declaration
that defendants are financially responsible for notifying
all class members of nicotine's addictive nature, a
declaration that the defendants manipulated nicotine
levels with the intent to sustain the addiction of
plaintiffs and the class members, an order that the
defendants disgorge any profits made from the sale of
cigarettes, restitution for sums paid for cigarettes, and
the establishment of a medical monitoring fund.
The plaintiffs initially defined the class as "all nicotine
dependent persons in the United States," including
current, former and deceased smokers since 1943.
Plaintiffs conceded that addiction would have to be
proven by each class member; the defendants argued
that proving class membership will require individual
mini-trials to determine whether addiction actually
exists.
In response to the district court's inquiry, the plaintiffs
proposed a four-phase trial plan.7 In phase 1, a jury
would determine common issues of "core liability."
Phase 1 issues would include8 (1) issues of law and fact
relating to defendants' course of conduct, fraud, and
negligence liability (including duty, standard of care,
misrepresentation and concealment, knowledge, intent);
(2) issues of law and fact relating to defendants' alleged
conspiracy and concert of action; (3) issues of fact
relating to the addictive nature/dependency creating
characteristics and properties of nicotine; (4) issues of
fact relating to nicotine cigarettes as defective products;
(5) issues of fact relating to whether defendants'
wrongful conduct was intentional, reckless or negligent;
(6) identifying which defendants specifically targeted
their advertising and promotional efforts to particular
groups (e.g. youths, minorities, etc.); (7) availability of a
presumption of reliance; (8) whether defendants'
misrepresentations/suppression of fact and/or of
addictive properties of nicotine preclude availability of a
"personal choice" defense; (9) defendants' liability for
actual damages, and the categories of such damages; (10)
defendants' liability for emotional distress damages; and
(11) defendants' liability for punitive damages.
Phase 1 would be followed by notice of the trial verdict
and claim forms to class members. In phase 2, the jury
would determine compensatory damages in sample
plaintiff cases. The jury then would establish a ratio of
punitive damages to compensatory damages, which ratio
thereafter would apply to each class member.
Phase 3 would entail a complicated procedure to
determine compensatory damages for individual class
members. The trial plan envisions determination of
absent class members' compensatory economic and
emotional distress damages on the basis of claim forms,
"subject to verification techniques and assertion of
defendants' affirmative defenses under grouping,
sampling, or representative procedures to be determined
by the Court."
The trial plan left open how jury trials on class
members' personal injury/wrongful death claims would
be handled, but the trial plan discussed the possibility of
bifurcation. In phase 4, the court would apply the
punitive damage ratio based on individual damage
awards and would conduct a review of the
reasonableness of the award.
B. The Class Certification Order
Following extensive briefing, the district court granted,
in part, plaintiffs' motion for class certification,
concluding that the prerequisites of FED.R.CIV.P. 23(a)
had been met.9 The court rejected certification, under
[84 F.3d 739] FED.R.CIV.P. 23(b)(2), of the plaintiffs'
claim for equitable relief, including the claim for medical
monitoring. 160 F.R.D. at 552. Appellees have not
cross-appealed that portion of the order.
The court did grant the plaintiffs' motion to certify the
class under FED.R.CIV.P. 23(b)(3),10 organizing the
class action issues into four categories: (1) core liability;
(2) injury-in-fact, proximate cause, reliance and
affirmative defenses; (3) compensatory damages; and (4)
punitive damages. Id. at 553-58. It then analyzed each
category to determine whether it met the predominance
and superiority requirements of rule 23(b)(3). Using its
power to sever issues for certification under
FED.R.CIV.P. 23(c)(4), the court certified the class on
core liability and punitive damages, and certified the
class conditionally pursuant to FED.R.CIV.P. 23(c)(1).
1. Core Liability Issues
The court defined core liability issues as "common
factual issues [of] whether defendants knew cigarette
smoking was addictive, failed to inform cigarette
smokers of such, and took actions to addict cigarette
smokers. Common legal issues include fraud,
negligence, breach of warranty (express or implied),
strict liability, and violation of consumer protection
statutes." 160 F.R.D. at 553.
The court found that the predominance requirement of
rule 23(b)(3) was satisfied for the core liability issues.
Without any specific analysis regarding the multitude of
issues that make up "core liability," the court found that
under Jenkins v. Raymark Indus., 782 F.2d 468 (5th
Cir.1986), common issues predominate because
resolution of core liability issues would significantly
advance the individual cases. The court did not discuss
why "core liability" issues would be a significant, rather
than just common, part of each individual trial, nor why
the individual issues in the remaining categories did not
predominate over the common "core liability" issues.
The only specific analysis on predominance analysis was
on the plaintiffs' fraud claim. The court determined that
it would be premature to hold that individual reliance
issues predominate over common issues. Relying on
Eisen v. Carlisle & Jacquelin, 417 U.S. 156, 94 S.Ct.
2140, 40 L.Ed.2d 732 (1974), the court stated that it
could not inquire into the merits of the plaintiffs' claim
to determine whether reliance would be an issue in
individual trials. 160 F.R.D. at 554. Moreover, the court
recognized the possibility that under state law, reliance
can be inferred when a fraud claim is based on an
omission. Accordingly, the court was convinced that it
could certify the class and defer the consideration of
how reliance would affect predominance.
The court also deferred substantial consideration of how
variations in state law would affect predominance.
Relying on two district court opinions,11 the court
concluded that issues of fraud, breach of warranty,
negligence, intentional tort, and strict liability do not
vary so much from state to state as to cause individual
issues to predominate. The court noted that any
determination of how state law variations affect
predominance was premature, as the court had yet to
make a choice of law determination. As for the
consumer protection claims, the court also deferred
analysis of state law variations, because "there has been
no showing that the [84 F.3d 740] consumer protection
statutes differ so much as to make individual issues
predominate." Id.
The court also concluded that a class action is superior
to other methods for adjudication of the core liability
issues. Relying heavily on Jenkins, the court noted that
having this common issue litigated in a class action was
superior to repeated trials of the same evidence.
Recognizing serious problems with manageability, it
determined that such problems were outweighed by "the
specter of thousands, if not millions, of similar trials of
liability proceeding in thousands of courtrooms around
the nation." Id. at 555-56.
2. Injury-in-fact, Proximate Cause, Reliance,
Affirmative Defenses, and Compensatory Damages
Using the same methodology as it did for the core
liability issues, the district court refused to certify the
issues of injury-in-fact, proximate cause, reliance,
affirmative defenses, and compensatory damages,
concluding that the "issues are so overwhelmingly
replete with individual circumstances that they quickly
outweigh predominance and superiority." Id. at 556.
Specifically, the court found that whether a person
suffered emotional injury from addiction, whether his
addiction was caused by the defendants' actions,
whether he relied on the defendants'
misrepresentations, and whether affirmative defenses
unique to each class member precluded recovery were
all individual issues. As to compensatory damages and
the claim for medical monitoring, the court concluded
that such claims were so intertwined with proximate
cause and affirmative defenses that class certification
would not materially advance the individual cases.
3. Punitive Damages
In certifying punitive damages for class treatment, the
court adopted the plaintiffs' trial plan for punitive
damages: The class jury would develop a ratio of
punitive damages to actual damages, and the court
would apply that ratio in individual cases. As it did with
the core liability issues, the court determined that
variations in state law, including differing burdens of
proof, did not preclude certification. Rather than
conduct an independent review of predominance or
superiority, the court relied on Jenkins and on Watson
v. Shell Oil Co., 979 F.2d 1014 (5th Cir.1992), vacated
for rehearing en banc, 990 F.2d 805 (5th Cir.1993),
appeal dismissed, 53 F.3d 663 (5th Cir.1994), for
support of its certification order.12
II.
A district court must conduct a rigorous analysis of the
rule 23 prerequisites before certifying a class. General
Tel. Co. v. Falcon, 457 U.S. 147, 161, 102 S.Ct. 2364,
2372, 72 L.Ed.2d 740 (1982); Applewhite v. Reichhold
Chems., 67 F.3d 571, 573 (5th Cir. 1995). The decision
to certify is within the broad discretion of the court, but
that discretion must be exercised within the framework
of rule 23. Gulf Oil Co. v. Bernard, 452 U.S. 89, 100, 101
S.Ct. 2193, 2200, 68 L.Ed.2d 693 (1981). The party
seeking certification bears the burden of proof. Horton
v. Goose Creek Ind. Sch. Dist., 690 F.2d 470, 486 (5th
Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 463 U.S. 1207, 103 S.Ct. 3536,
77 L.Ed.2d 1387 (1983); In re American Medical Sys., 75
F.3d 1069, 1086 (6th Cir.1996) (concluding that district
court reversed the proper burden of proof by asking
defendants to show cause why the court should not
certify the class).
The district court erred in its analysis in two distinct
ways. First, it failed to consider how variations in state
law affect predominance and superiority. Second, its
predominance inquiry did not include consideration of
how a trial on the merits would be conducted.
Each of these defects mandates reversal. Moreover, at
this time, while the tort is immature, the class complaint
must be dismissed, [84 F.3d 741] as class certification
cannot be found to be a superior method of
adjudication.13
A. Variations in State Law
Although rule 23(c)(1) requires that a class should be
certified "as soon as practicable" and allows a court to
certify a conditional class, it does not follow that the
rule's requirements are lessened when the class is
conditional. As a sister circuit explained:
Conditional certification is not a means whereby the District Court
can avoid deciding whether, at that time, the requirements of the
Rule have been substantially met. The purpose of conditional
certification is to preserve the Court's power to revoke certification
in those cases wherein the magnitude or complexity of the litigation
may eventually reveal problems not theretofore apparent. But in
this case the District Court seemed to brush aside one of the
requirements of Rule 23(b)(3) by stating that at this time "analysis
of the individual versus common questions would be for the Court
to act as a seer." However difficult it may have been for the District
Court to decide whether common questions predominate over
individual questions, it should not have sidestepped this
preliminary requirement of the Rule by merely stating that the
problem of individual questions "lies far beyond the horizon in the
realm of speculation."
In re Hotel Tel. Charges, 500 F.2d 86, 90 (9th Cir.1974).
In a multi-state class action, variations in state law may
swamp any common issues and defeat predominance.
See Georgine v. Amchem Prods., 83 F.3d 610, 618 (3d
Cir.1996) (decertifying class because legal and factual
differences in the plaintiffs' claims "when exponentially
magnified by choice of law considerations, eclipse any
common issues in this case"); American Medical Sys., 75
F.3d at 1085 (granting mandamus in a multi-state
products liability action, in part because "[t]he district
court ... failed to consider how the law of negligence
differs from jurisdiction to jurisdiction").
Accordingly, a district court must consider how
variations in state law affect predominance and
superiority. Walsh v. Ford Motor Co., 807 F.2d 1000
(D.C.Cir.1986) (Ruth Bader Ginsburg, J.), cert. denied,
482 U.S. 915, 107 S.Ct. 3188, 96 L.Ed.2d 677 (1987). The
Walsh court rejected the notion that a district court may
defer considering variations in state law:
Appellees see the "which law" matter as academic. They say no
variations in state warranty laws relevant to this case exist. A court
cannot accept such an assertion "on faith." Appellees, as class action
proponents, must show that it is accurate. We have made no
inquiry of our own on this score and, for the current purpose,
simply note the general unstartling statement made in a leading
treatise: "The Uniform Commercial Code is not uniform."
Id. at 1016-17 (footnotes omitted).
A district court's duty to determine whether the plaintiff
has borne its burden on class certification requires that a
court consider variations in state law when a class action
involves multiple jurisdictions. "In order to make the
findings required to certify a class action under Rule
23(b)(3) ... one must initially identify the substantive law
issues which will control the outcome of the litigation."
Alabama v. Blue Bird Body Co., 573 F.2d 309, 316 (5th
Cir.1978).
A requirement that a court know which law will apply
before making a predominance determination is
especially important when there may be differences in
state law. See In re Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Inc. ("RhonePoulenc"),
51 F.3d 1293, 1299-1302 (7th Cir.)
(mandamus) (comparing differing state pattern
instructions on negligence and differing formulations of
the meaning of negligence), cert. denied, ___ U.S. ___,
116 S.Ct. 184, 133 L.Ed.2d 122 (1995); In re [84 F.3d
742] "Agent Orange" Prod. Liability Litig., 818 F.2d 145,
165 (2d Cir.1987) (noting possibility of differences in
state products liability law), cert. denied, 484 U.S. 1004,
108 S.Ct. 695, 98 L.Ed.2d 647 (1988). Given the
plaintiffs' burden, a court cannot rely on assurances of
counsel that any problems with predominance or
superiority can be overcome. Windham v. American
Brands, Inc., 565 F.2d 59, 70 (4th Cir.1977), cert. denied,
435 U.S. 968, 98 S.Ct. 1605, 56 L.Ed.2d 58 (1978).
The able opinion in School Asbestos demonstrates what
is required from a district court when variations in state
law exist. There, the court affirmed class certification,
despite variations in state law, because:
To meet the problem of diversity in applicable state law, class
plaintiffs have undertaken an extensive analysis of the variances in
products liability among the jurisdictions. That review separates the
law into four categories. Even assuming additional permutations
and combinations, plaintiffs have made a creditable showing, which
apparently satisfied the district court, that class certification does
not present insuperable obstacles. Although we have some doubt on
this score, the effort may nonetheless prove successful.
789 F.2d at 1010; see also Georgine, 83 F.3d at 627 & n.
13 (distinguishing School Asbestos because it involved
few individualized questions, and class counsel had made
a credible argument that the applicable law of the
different states could be categorized into four patterns);
Walsh, 807 F.2d at 1017 (holding that "nationwide class
action movants must creditably demonstrate, through
an `extensive analysis' of state law variances, `that class
certification does not present insuperable obstacles'").
A thorough review of the record demonstrates that, in
this case, the district court did not properly consider
how variations in state law affect predominance. The
court acknowledged as much in its order granting class
certification, for, in declining to make a choice of law
determination, it noted that "[t]he parties have only
briefly addressed the conflict of laws issue in this
matter." 160 F.R.D. at 554. Similarly, the court stated
that "there has been no showing that the consumer
protection statutes differ so much as to make individual
issues predominate." Id.14
The district court's review of state law variances can
hardly be considered extensive; it conducted a cursory
review of state law variations and gave short shrift to
the defendants' arguments concerning variations. In
response to the defendants' extensive analysis of how
state law varied on fraud, products liability, affirmative
defenses, negligent infliction of emotional distress,
consumer protection statutes, and punitive damages,15
the court examined a sample phase 1 [84 F.3d 743] jury
interrogatory and verdict form, a survey of medical
monitoring decisions, a survey of consumer fraud class
actions, and a survey of punitive damages law in the
defendants' home states. The court also relied on two
district court opinions granting certification in multistate
class actions.
The district court's consideration of state law variations
was inadequate. The surveys provided by the plaintiffs
failed to discuss, in any meaningful way, how the court
could deal with variations in state law. The consumer
fraud survey simply quoted a few state courts that had
certified state class actions. The survey of punitive
damages was limited to the defendants' home states.
Moreover, the two district court opinions on which the
court relied did not support the proposition that
variations in state law could be ignored.16 Nothing in
the record demonstrates that the court critically
analyzed how variations in state law would affect
predominance.
The court also failed to perform its duty to determine
whether the class action would be manageable in light of
state law variations. The court's only discussion of
manageability [84 F.3d 744] is a citation to Jenkins and
the claim that "[w]hile manageability of the liability
issues in this case may well prove to be difficult, the
Court finds that any such difficulties pale in comparison
to the specter of thousands, if not millions, of similar
trials of liability proceeding in thousands of courtrooms
around the nation." Id. at 555-56.
The problem with this approach is that it substitutes
case-specific analysis with a generalized reference to
Jenkins. The Jenkins court, however, was not faced with
managing a novel claim involving eight causes of action,
multiple jurisdictions, millions of plaintiffs, eight
defendants, and over fifty years of alleged wrongful
conduct. Instead, Jenkins involved only 893 personal
injury asbestos cases, the law of only one state, and the
prospect of trial occurring in only one district.
Accordingly, for purposes of the instant case, Jenkins is
largely inapposite.
In summary, whether the specter of millions of cases
outweighs any manageability problems in this class is
uncertain when the scope of any manageability
problems is unknown. Absent considered judgment on
the manageability of the class, a comparison to millions
of individual trials is meaningless.
B. Predominance
The district court's second error was that it failed to
consider how the plaintiffs' addiction claims would be
tried, individually or on a class basis. See 160 F.R.D. at
554. The district court, based on Eisen v. Carlisle &
Jacquelin, 417 U.S. 156, 177-78, 94 S.Ct. 2140, 2152-53,
40 L.Ed.2d 732 (1974), and Miller v. Mackey Int'l, 452
F.2d 424 (5th Cir.1971), believed that it could not go
past the pleadings for the certification decision. The
result was an incomplete and inadequate predominance
inquiry.
The crux of the court's error was that it misinterpreted
Eisen and Miller. Neither case suggests that a court is
limited to the pleadings when deciding on certification.
Both, instead, stand for the unremarkable proposition
that the strength of a plaintiff's claim should not affect
the certification decision. In Eisen, the Court held that it
was improper to make a preliminary inquiry into the
merits of a case, determine that the plaintiff was likely to
succeed, and consequently shift the cost of providing
notice to the defendant. 417 U.S. at 177, 94 S.Ct. at
2152. In Miller, this court held that a district court could
not deny certification based on its belief that the plaintiff
could not prevail on the merits. 452 F.2d at 427.
A district court certainly may look past the pleadings to
determine whether the requirements of rule 23 have
been met.17 Going beyond the pleadings is necessary, as
a court must understand the claims, defenses, relevant
facts, and applicable substantive law in order to make a
meaningful determination of the certification issues. See
MANUAL FOR COMPLEX LITIGATION § 30.11 (3d
ed. 1995).
The district court's predominance inquiry demonstrates
why such an understanding is necessary. The premise of
the court's opinion is a citation to Jenkins and a
conclusion that class treatment of common issues would
significantly advance the individual trials. [84 F.3d 745]
Absent knowledge of how addiction-as-injury cases
would actually be tried, however, it was impossible for
the court to know whether the common issues would be
a "significant" portion of the individual trials. The court
just assumed that because the common issues would play
a part in every trial, they must be significant.18 The
court's synthesis of Jenkins and Eisen would write the
predominance requirement out of the rule, and any
common issue would predominate if it were common to
all the individual trials.19
The court's treatment of the fraud claim also
demonstrates the error inherent in its approach.20
According to both the advisory committee's notes to
Rule 23(b)(3) and this court's decision in Simon v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., 482 F.2d
880 (5th Cir.1973), a fraud class action cannot be
certified when individual reliance will be an issue. The
district court avoided the reach of this court's decision in
Simon by an erroneous reading of Eisen; the court
refused to consider whether reliance would be an issue
in individual trials.
The problem with the district court's approach is that
after the class trial, it might have decided that reliance
must be proven in individual trials. The court then
would have been faced with the difficult choice of
decertifying the class after phase 1 and wasting judicial
resources, or continuing with a class action that would
have failed the predominance requirement of rule
23(b)(3).21
[84 F.3d 746] III.
In addition to the reasons given above, regarding the
district court's procedural errors, this class must be
decertified because it independently fails the superiority
requirement of rule 23(b)(3). In the context of mass tort
class actions, certification dramatically affects the stakes
for defendants. Class certification magnifies and
strengthens the number of unmeritorious claims. Agent
Orange, 818 F.2d at 165-66. Aggregation of claims also
makes it more likely that a defendant will be found liable
and results in significantly higher damage awards.
MANUAL FOR COMPLEX LITIGATION § 33.26 n.
1056; Kenneth S. Bordens and Irwin A. Horowitz, Mass
Tort Civil Litigation: The Impact of Procedural Changes
on Jury Decisions, 73 JUDICATURE 22 (1989).
In addition to skewing trial outcomes, class certification
creates insurmountable pressure on defendants to settle,
whereas individual trials would not. See Peter H.
Schuck, Mass Torts: An Institutional Evolutionist
Perspective, 80 CORNELL L.REV. 941, 958 (1995). The
risk of facing an all-or-nothing verdict presents too high
a risk, even when the probability of an adverse
judgment is low. Rhone-Poulenc, 51 F.3d at 1298. These
settlements have been referred to as judicial blackmail.22
It is no surprise then, that historically, certification of
mass tort litigation classes has been disfavored.23 The
traditional concern [84 F.3d 747] over the rights of
defendants in mass tort class actions is magnified in the
instant case. Our specific concern is that a mass tort
cannot be properly certified without a prior track record
of trials from which the district court can draw the
information necessary to make the predominance and
superiority analysis required by rule 23. This is because
certification of an immature tort results in a higher than
normal risk that the class action may not be superior to
individual adjudication.
We first address the district court's superiority analysis.
The court acknowledged the extensive manageability
problems with this class. Such problems include difficult
choice of law determinations, subclassing of eight claims
with variations in state law, Erie guesses, notice to
millions of class members, further subclassing to take
account of transient plaintiffs, and the difficult
procedure for determining who is nicotine-dependent.
Cases with far fewer manageability problems have given
courts pause. See, e.g., Georgine, 83 F.3d at 632; In re
Hotel Tel., 500 F.2d at 90.
The district court's rationale for certification in spite of
such problems — i.e., that a class trial would preserve
judicial resources in the millions of inevitable individual
trials — is based on pure speculation. Not every mass
tort is asbestos, and not every mass tort will result in the
same judicial crises.24 The judicial crisis to which the
district court referred is only theoretical.
What the district court failed to consider, and what no
court can determine at this time, is the very real
possibility that the judicial crisis may fail to materialize.25
The plaintiffs' [84 F.3d 748] claims are based on a new
theory of liability and the existence of new evidence.
Until plaintiffs decide to file individual claims, a court
cannot, from the existence of injury, presume that all or
even any plaintiffs will pursue legal remedies.26 Nor can
a court make a superiority determination based on such
speculation. American Medical Sys., 75 F.3d at 1085
(opining that superiority is lacking where judicial
management crisis does not exist and individual trials
are possible).
Severe manageability problems and the lack of a judicial
crisis are not the only reasons why superiority is lacking.
The most compelling rationale for finding superiority in
a class action — the existence of a negative value suit —
is missing in this case. Accord Phillips Petroleum Co. v.
Shutts, 472 U.S. 797, 809, 105 S.Ct. 2965, 2973, 86
L.Ed.2d 628 (1985); Rhone-Poulenc, 51 F.3d at 1299.
As he stated in the record, plaintiffs' counsel in this case
has promised to inundate the courts with individual
claims if class certification is denied. Independently of
the reliability of this self-serving promise, there is
reason to believe that individual suits are feasible. First,
individual damage claims are high, and punitive
damages are available in most states. The expense of
litigation does not necessarily turn this case into a
negative value suit, in part because the prevailing party
may recover attorneys' fees under many consumer
protection statutes. See Boggs v. Alto Trailer Sales, 511
F.2d 114, 118 (5th Cir.1975) (acknowledging that the
availability of attorneys' fees is a common basis for
finding non-superiority).
In a case such as this one, where each plaintiff may
receive a large award, and fee shifting often is available,
we find Chief Judge Posner's analysis of superiority to be
persuasive:
For this consensus or maturing of judgment the district judge
proposes to substitute a single trial before a single jury.... One jury
... will hold the fate of an industry in the palm of its hand.... That
kind of thing can happen in our system of civil justice.... But it need
not be tolerated when the alternative exists of submitting an issue
to multiple juries constituting in the aggregate a much larger and
more diverse sample of decision-makers. That would not be a
feasible option if the stakes to each class member were too slight to
repay the cost of suit.... But this is not the case.... Each plaintiff if
successful is apt to receive a judgment in the millions. With the
aggregate stakes in the tens or hundreds of millions of dollars, or
even in the billions, it is not a waste of judicial resources to conduct
more than one trial, before more than six jurors, to determine
whether a major segment of the international pharmaceutical
industry is to follow the asbestos manufacturers into Chapter 11.
Rhone-Poulenc, 51 F.3d at 1300. So too here, we cannot
say that it would be a waste to allow individual trials to
proceed, before a district court engages in the
complicated predominance and superiority analysis
necessary to certify a class.
Fairness may demand that mass torts with few prior verdicts or
judgments be litigated first in smaller units — even single-plaintiff,
single-defendant trials — until general causation, typical injuries,
and levels of damages become established. Thus, "mature" mass
torts like asbestos or Dalkon Shield may call for procedures that are
not appropriate for incipient mass tort cases, such as those
involving injuries arising [84 F.3d 749] from new products,
chemical substances, or pharmaceuticals.
MANUAL FOR COMPLEX LITIGATION § 33.26.
The remaining rationale for superiority — judicial
efficiency27 — is also lacking. In the context of an
immature tort, any savings in judicial resources is
speculative, and any imagined savings would be
overwhelmed by the procedural problems that
certification of a sui generis cause of action brings with
it.
Even assuming arguendo that the tort system will see
many more addiction-as-injury claims, a conclusion that
certification will save judicial resources is premature at
this stage of the litigation. Take for example the district
court's plan to divide core liability from other issues
such as comparative negligence and reliance. The
assumption is that after a class verdict, the common
issues will not be a part of follow-up trials. The court
has no basis for that assumption.
It may be that comparative negligence will be raised in
the individual trials, and the evidence presented at the
class trial will have to be repeated. The same may be
true for reliance.28 The net result may be a waste, not a
savings, in judicial resources. Only after the courts have
more experience with this type of case can a court
certify issues in a way that preserves judicial resources.
See Jenkins, 782 F.2d 468 (certifying state of the art
defense because experience had demonstrated that
judicial resources could be saved by certification).
Even assuming that certification at this time would
result in judicial efficiencies in individual trials,
certification of an immature tort brings with it unique
problems that may consume more judicial resources
than certification will save. These problems are not
speculative; the district court faced, and ignored, many
of the problems that immature torts can cause.
The primary procedural difficulty created by immature
torts is the inherent difficulty a district court will have
in determining whether the requirements of rule 23
have been met. We have already identified a number of
defects with the district court's predominance and
manageability inquires, defects that will continue to
exist on remand because of the unique nature of the
plaintiffs' claim.
The district court's predominance inquiry, or lack of it,
squarely presents the problems associated with
certification of immature torts. Determining whether
the common issues are a "significant" part of each
individual case has an abstract quality to it when no
court in this country has ever tried an injury-asaddiction
claim. As the plaintiffs admitted to the district
court, "we don't have the learning curb [sic] that is
necessary to say to Your Honor `this is precisely how
this case can be tried and that will not run afoul of the
teachings of the 5th Circuit.'"
Yet, an accurate finding on predominance is necessary
before the court can certify a class. It may turn out that
the defendant's conduct, while common, is a minor part
of each trial. Premature certification deprives the
defendant of the opportunity to present that argument
to any court and risks decertification after considerable
resources have been expended.
The court's analysis of reliance also demonstrates the
potential judicial inefficiencies in immature tort class
actions. Individual trials will determine whether
individual reliance will be an issue. Rather than guess
that reliance may be inferred, a district court should base
its determination that individual reliance does not
predominate on the wisdom of such individual trials.
The risk that a district court will make the wrong guess,
that the parties will engage in years of litigation, and
that the class ultimately will be decertified (because
reliance predominates over common issues) prevents
this class action from being a superior method of
adjudication.
The complexity of the choice of law inquiry also makes
individual adjudication superior [84 F.3d 750] to class
treatment. The plaintiffs have asserted eight theories of
liability from every state. Prior to certification, the
district court must determine whether variations in state
law defeat predominance. While the task may not be
impossible, its complexity certainly makes individual
trials a more attractive alternative and, ipso facto,
renders class treatment not superior. See Georgine, 83
F.3d at 634 (recommending that Congress solve the
problems inherent in multi-state class actions by
federalizing choice of law rules, but rejecting such
legislation when it masquerades as judicial innovation).
Through individual adjudication, the plaintiffs can
winnow their claims to the strongest causes of action.29
The result will be an easier choice of law inquiry and a
less complicated predominance inquiry. State courts can
address the more novel of the plaintiffs' claims, making
the federal court's Erie guesses less complicated. It is far
more desirable to allow state courts to apply and develop
their own law than to have a federal court apply "a kind
of Esperanto [jury] instruction." Rhone-Poulenc, 51
F.3d at 1300; MANUAL FOR COMPLEX
LITIGATION § 33.26 (discussing the full cycle of
litigation necessary for a tort to mature).
The full development of trials in every state will make
subclassing an easier process. The result of allowing
individual trials to proceed is a more accurate
determination of predominance. We have already seen
the result of certifying this class without individual
adjudications, and we are not alone in expressing
discomfort with a district court's certification of a novel
theory. See Rhone-Poulenc, 51 F.3d at 1300.
Another factor weighing heavily in favor of individual
trials is the risk that in order to make this class action
manageable, the court will be forced to bifurcate issues
in violation of the Seventh Amendment. This class
action is permeated with individual issues, such as
proximate causation, comparative negligence, reliance,
and compensatory damages. In order to manage so
many individual issues, the district court proposed to
empanel a class jury to adjudicate common issues. A
second jury, or a number of "second" juries, will pass on
the individual issues, either on a case-by-case basis or
through group trials of individual plaintiffs.
The Seventh Amendment entitles parties to have fact
issues decided by one jury, and prohibits a second jury
from reexamining those facts and issues.30 Thus,
Constitution allows bifurcation of issues that are so
separable that the second jury will not be called upon to
reconsider findings of fact by the first:
[T]his Court has cautioned that separation of issues is not the usual
course that should be followed, and that the issue to be tried must
be so distinct and separable from the others that a trial of it alone
may be had without injustice. This limitation on the use of
bifurcation is a recognition of the fact that inherent in the Seventh
Amendment guarantee of a trial by jury is the general right of a
litigant to have only one jury pass on a common issue of fact. The
Supreme Court recognized this principle in Gasoline Products [Co.,
Inc. v. Champlin Refining Co., 283 U.S. 494, 51 S.Ct. 513, 75 L.Ed.
1188 (1931)].... The Court explained ... that a partial new trial may
not be "properly resorted to unless it clearly appears that the issue
to be retried is so distinct and separable from the others that a trial
of it alone may be had without injustice." Such a rule is dictated for
the very practical reason that if separate juries are allowed to pass
on issues involving overlapping legal and factual questions the [84
F.3d 751] verdicts rendered by each jury could be inconsistent.
Alabama v. Blue Bird Body Co., 573 F.2d 309, 318 (5th
Cir.1978) (citations and footnotes omitted).
The Seventh Circuit recently addressed Seventh
Amendment limitations to bifurcation. In RhonePoulenc,
51 F.3d at 1302-03, Chief Judge Posner
described the constitutional limitation as one requiring a
court to "carve at the joint" in such a way so that the
same issue is not reexamined by different juries. "The
right to a jury trial ... is a right to have juriable issues
determined by the first jury impaneled to hear them
(provided there are no errors warranting a new trial),
and not reexamined by another finder of fact." Id. at
1303.
Severing a defendant's conduct from comparative
negligence results in the type of risk that our court
forbade in Blue Bird. Comparative negligence, by
definition, requires a comparison between the
defendant's and the plaintiff's conduct. Rhone-Poulenc,
51 F.3d at 1303 ("Comparative negligence entails, as the
name implies, a comparison of the degree of negligence
of plaintiff and defendant."). At a bare minimum, a
second jury will rehear evidence of the defendant's
conduct. There is a risk that in apportioning fault, the
second jury could reevaluate the defendant's fault,
determine that the defendant was not at fault, and
apportion 100% of the fault to the plaintiff. In such a
situation, the second jury would be impermissibly
reconsidering the findings of a first jury. The risk of
such reevaluation is so great that class treatment can
hardly be said to be superior to individual adjudication.31
The plaintiffs' final retort is that individual trials are
inadequate because time is running out for many of the
plaintiffs.32 They point out that prior litigation against
the tobacco companies has taken up to ten years to wind
through the legal system. While a compelling rhetorical
argument, it is ultimately inconsistent with the
plaintiffs' own arguments and ignores the realities of the
legal system. First, the plaintiffs' reliance on prior
personal injury cases is unpersuasive, as they admit that
they have new evidence and are pursuing a claim
entirely different from that of past plaintiffs.
Second, the plaintiffs' claim that time is running out
ignores the reality of the class action device. In a
complicated case involving multiple jurisdictions, the
conflict of law question itself could take decades to work
its way through the courts.33 Once that issue has been
resolved, discovery, subclassing, and ultimately the class
trial would take place. Next would come the appellate
process. After the class trial, the individual trials and
appeals on comparative negligence and damages would
have to take place. The net result could be that the class
action device would lengthen, not shorten, the time it
takes for the plaintiffs to reach final judgment.
[84 F.3d 752] IV.
The district court abused its discretion by ignoring
variations in state law and how a trial on the alleged
causes of action would be tried. Those errors cannot be
corrected on remand because of the novelty of the
plaintiffs' claims. Accordingly, class treatment is not
superior to individual adjudication.
We have once before stated that "traditional ways of
proceeding reflect far more than habit. They reflect the
very culture of the jury trial...." In re Fibreboard Corp.,
893 F.2d 706, 711 (5th Cir.1990). The collective wisdom
of individual juries is necessary before this court
commits the fate of an entire industry or, indeed, the
fate of a class of millions, to a single jury. For the
forgoing reasons, we REVERSE and REMAND with
instructions that the district court dismiss the class
complaint.