Plaintiff A.F.A. Tours, Inc., doing business as Alumni
Flights Abroad ("AFA"), appeals from a final judgment
of the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York, Vincent L. Broderick, Judge,
dismissing for lack of subject matter jurisdiction this
diversity action against defendant Desmond
Whitchurch for misappropriation of trade secrets. The
district court summarily dismissed the complaint on the
ground that it would not be possible for AFA to prove
damages amounting to more than $50,000. For the
reasons below, we vacate and remand for further
proceedings.
I. BACKGROUND
According to the complaint, AFA operates a travel and
tour business, specializing in deluxe tours for United
States residents to overseas destinations including
Australia, New Zealand, and New Guinea. It expended
large sums of money and invested significant time and
labor to develop, inter alia, a client and customer list,
marketing information, and tour information. It
regarded this information as confidential trade secrets.
From 1972 through 1989, Whitchurch was employed by
AFA as its exclusive tour escort in the above areas. In
that position, Whitchurch was privy to certain of the
above confidential information. The complaint alleged
that in or about October 1989, Whitchurch resigned
from AFA, misappropriated the confidential
information known to him, and organized his own tour
business. Since that time, he has offered or intends to
offer tours that compete with those offered by AFA; in
connection with his own tours, he has solicited or
intends to solicit participants from AFA's customer list.
AFA commenced the present diversity action in the
district court for misappropriation of its trade secrets,
seeking an injunction against any use by Whitchurch of
confidential AFA information, and damages "in an
amount which is not presently ascertainable, but which
is believed to exceed the sum of $50,000.00." It also
sought punitive damages of "no less than $250,000.00."
Whitchurch denied all of the material allegations of the
complaint and quickly moved for summary judgment on
the ground that the AFA information possessed by
Whitchurch was not confidential. Whitchurch's
supporting affidavits stated, inter alia, that, though
Whitchurch had led an average of seven AFA tours per
year for 17 years, he had had no written contract with
AFA. He stated that AFA had never informed him that
the customer names were confidential, or should not be
[937 F.2d 85] shared with others, or should be returned
to AFA upon Whitchurch's resignation. Rather, he
stated, AFA had freely disseminated lists of the names
and addresses of its customers to "countless individuals
and entities," including hotels, booking and travel
agents, and the tour participants themselves.
Whitchurch stated that from February to May 1990, he
had attempted to organize a tour on his own. In this
effort he had, inter alia, written to former AFA tour
participants he had escorted, informed them of his
separation from AFA, and solicited their participation.
Only two people reserved space on the planned tour,
however, and it was canceled. He opposed the present
lawsuit because he remained interested in conducting
tours in the future.
AFA opposed Whitchurch's summary judgment
motion, contending that there were genuine issues of
fact as to, inter alia, the confidential nature of the AFA
information and Whitchurch's knowledge of that
confidentiality. It submitted affidavits describing its own
operations and detailing steps it had taken to maintain
the confidentiality of its customer list, including the
following.
The names and addresses of AFA customers were not
readily obtainable from any public source. AFA catered
to alumni and alumnae of certain United States
universities that did not generally sell their alumni lists
to outside businesses for commercial purposes. AFA's
customer list, maintained in a computer file to which
access is denied without a password, was compiled
largely from responses to AFA advertisements in alumni
magazines and from referrals by AFA tour participants.
AFA was currently spending more than $100,000 per
year in advertising and promotion and in all had spent
more than $1,000,000 in developing the customer list.
The most valuable names on the list were those of
persons who had traveled on past AFA tours.
AFA disputed Whitchurch's contention that its
customer list had been freely disseminated, stating that
the names on that list were not disclosed except on a
need-to-know basis. Thus, Whitchurch himself had not
been given the whole list but only the names and
addresses of the persons he was to escort. Lists of
persons participating in a particular tour obviously had
to be disclosed to providers of services such as hotels,
but the disclosures were limited and were made with a
notation of confidentiality. AFA also asserted that
Whitchurch was fully aware of the confidential nature
of that information and that as part of his duties he had
delivered preregistration information to hotels,
including an AFA cover letter stating that the
information provided "is STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
and is supplied to you only for the purpose of preregistering
the members of the tour."
AFA never sold or traded its list to others. Occasionally
it received calls from persons considering a tour and
requesting the names and addresses of former AFA tour
participants; it refused to give out that information,
informing the caller that the information was
confidential. Even when a former AFA tour participant
would call AFA to request the address or telephone
number of a coparticipant, AFA's response was to relay
the request to the coparticipant rather than giving the
information to the caller. These practices were designed
to prevent rival tours from gaining AFA confidential
information by ruse.
At the oral argument of Whitchurch's motion,
Whitchurch's attorney began by characterizing the
motion as "turn[ing] on a very narrow issue" of whether
the AFA information constituted trade secrets (Hearing
Transcript, November 16, 1990 ("Tr."), at 1), and stating
that the case was important to Whitchurch because "he
may one day in the future wish to organize a tour, and
write letters to individuals again" (id. at 2). The court,
however, asked whether it even had to reach the
question of trade secrets, raising sua sponte the question
of whether the value of AFA's claims exceeded $50,000,
a jurisdictional prerequisite for a diversity action. In
response to the court's jurisdictional question,
Whitchurch's attorney stated that Whitchurch, in
soliciting for his planned tour, had written to 100-200
former AFA [937 F.2d 86] tour participants but had
received favorable responses from only two.
THE COURT: .... Why did you think your client was so
unsuccessful in sparking interest in a tour under his direction?
MR. KRANTZ [counsel for Whitchurch]: I am sure one factor was
that he was writing to people who had already been there, and so he
was looking for only people who were interested in going twice.
What other factors there were, I am really not certain....
Certainly any damages here are d[e] min[imi]s. I would absolutely
agree with the Court.
THE COURT: Well, the Supreme Court has told us, as I read what
it has said, that if there is a speculative question of fact but no
reasonable possibility of damage, then summary judgement is
appropriate....
(Id. at 5.)
AFA's attorney argued that Whitchurch's lack of success
on his first effort was hardly dispositive of the issue of
the amount of damages AFA might suffer, in light of
Whitchurch's desire to conduct other tours in the
future. In his letter to former AFA tour participants, for
example, Whitchurch had offered the addressees their
"first" opportunity to join his planned 28-day tour and
said, "If you would like to be on my mailing list for
future tours, please fill out and return the enclosed form.
I will also be available to arrange special interest tours to
the South Pacific." AFA's attorney, noting that over the
years Whitchurch had escorted some 1,500 AFA clients
on tours and had indicated that he would conduct a
number of tours, argued that AFA's damages would be
substantial. He stated that a single 10-customer tour to
the area in question would easily generate more than
$50,000:
THE COURT: How do you get up to fifty thousand dollars?
MR. DUBOW: ....
One tour of ten of your customers is a lot more than fifty thousand
dollars. It's about seven to ten thousand dollars per customer on
that one tour, and he's offering five or six different tours to areas of
the world. And he even said in his letter that he is going to solicit
customers for trips to that area of the world and expand on that. So
there is no doubt, he doesn't deny that.
(Id. at 15.) Dubow also stated that "one tour alone will
produce more than fifty thousand dollars to Mr.
Whitchurch...." (Id. at 19.)
At the close of this hearing, the court granted summary
judgment in favor of Whitchurch, stating as follows:
THE COURT: I grant defendant's motion for summary judgment.
There may be a theoretical question of fact here, but it is not the
same type of material question of fact that precludes summary
judgment.
We have lists here that were available to the defendant for the
seventeen years, with respect to some of the older witnesses [sic], I
suspect that the people traveled on those lists[, m]any of whom
have reached retirement age at that time are probably no longer
available for touring purposes.
The defendant's track record in soliciting is a pretty bad one. Two
people signed up with him. I see there is no way any fact finder in
this case will possibly reach a point where it will award damages to
the plaintiff. I see no possible reason that the fifty thousand — no
possible basis upon which the fifty thousand dollar number, which I
think does apply here, could ever be reached. We're not dealing
here with the plaintiff's massive lists. We're dealing with a
circumscribed portion of those lists where the customers have
already been tapped and have taken their tours.
I have [a] very serious question as to whether the lists involved here
are trade secrets. It maybe [sic], as the plaintiff argues, that this is a
question of fact that I should not be deciding. But, I'm taking to
heart what the Supreme Court has said and that is a summary
judgment is an effective way to eliminate from the Court the
matters cluttering up our calendars.
I see this case is one where there is no reasonable possibility that
any jury will [937 F.2d 87] render a verdict for the plaintiff, and on
that basis, I grant summary judgement.
(Id. at 33-35.)
Judgment was entered dismissing the complaint, and
this appeal followed.
II. DISCUSSION
On appeal, AFA contends that the dismissal for lack of
jurisdiction was improper because the court (1) failed to
give AFA an appropriate opportunity to show that it
satisfied the jurisdictional amount, and (2) failed to
apply the proper standard to AFA's requests for (a)
damages and (b) injunctive relief. Whitchurch seeks to
defend the judgment on the ground that the district
court did not dismiss on the jurisdictional ground and
that summary judgment on the merits was proper.
We reject Whitchurch's contention that the district
court did not dismiss for lack of jurisdiction. Though the
court styled its decision as one granting summary
judgment and stated that it had a "very serious question"
as to whether the AFA lists were trade secrets, it did not
purport to resolve that question. Rather, it stated that it
could see "no possible basis upon which the fifty
thousand dollar number could ever be reached." The
decision itself, therefore, especially in light of the
colloquy that preceded it, indicates that the court
dismissed because it had concluded that AFA could not
satisfy the minimum jurisdictional amount.
For the reasons below, we conclude that the dismissal
on the jurisdictional ground was improper. We also
note that summary judgment dismissing AFA's trade
secrets claims on the merits would have been improper.
A. The Jurisdictional Amount
The district courts have jurisdiction over civil diversity
suits "where the matter in controversy exceeds the sum
or value of $50,000, exclusive of interest and costs." 28
U.S.C. § 1332 (1988). The test for determining whether
a plaintiff meets the jurisdictional amount, established
by the Supreme Court in St. Paul Mercury Indemnity
Co. v. Red Cab Co., 303 U.S. 283, 58 S.Ct. 586, 82 L.Ed.
845 (1938), is as follows:
The rule governing dismissal for want of jurisdiction in cases
brought in the federal court is that, unless the law gives a different
rule, the sum claimed by the plaintiff controls if the claim is
apparently made in good faith. It must appear to a legal certainty
that the claim is really for less than the jurisdictional amount to
justify a dismissal.
303 U.S. at 288-89, 58 S.Ct. at 590 (emphasis added).
The amount of damages recoverable in an action for
misappropriation of trade secrets may be measured
either by the plaintiff's losses, see, e.g., Timely Products
Corp. v. Arron, 523 F.2d 288, 304 (2d Cir.1975); see
generally 2 R. Milgrim, Milgrim on Trade Secrets
("Milgrim") § 7.08[3][a], at 7-314 to 7-318 (1990), or by
the profits unjustly received by the defendant, see id.;
Electro-Miniatures Corp. v. Wendon Co., 771 F.2d 23,
27 (2d Cir.1985). In addition, if punitive damages are
permitted under the controlling law, the demand for
such damages may be included in determining whether
the jurisdictional amount is satisfied. See generally 14A
C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure §
3702, at 44 (1985) ("Wright & Miller"). New York law
apparently allows the recovery of punitive damages in a
trade secrets case if the defendant's conduct has been
sufficiently "gross and wanton." See, e.g., Huschle v.
Battelle, 33 A.D.2d 1017, 308 N.Y.S.2d 235 (1st Dep't
1970), aff'd, 31 N.Y.2d 767, 338 N.Y.S.2d 622, 290
N.E.2d 823 (1972).
Further, in appropriate circumstances, the owner of
trade secrets may obtain an injunction against their use
or disclosure by another in breach of his confidential
relationship with the owner. See Bridge C.A.T. Scan
Associates v. Technicare Corp., 710 F.2d 940, 946 (2d
Cir.1983). Where the plaintiff seeks injunctive relief, the
value of his claim is generally assessed with reference to
the right he seeks to protect and measured by the extent
of the impairment to be prevented by the injunction.
See generally 1 Moore's Federal [937 F.2d 88] Practice ¶
0.96[2] (2d ed. 1991); 14A Wright & Miller § 3708, at
143-44. In calculating that impairment, the court may
look not only at past losses but also at potential harm.
See generally id. at 146-49.
Before making a determination that the plaintiff's claim
does not meet the jurisdictional minimum, the court
must afford the plaintiff an "appropriate and reasonable
opportunity to show good faith in believing that a
recovery in excess of [the jurisdictional amount] is
reasonably possible." Arnold v. Troccoli, 344 F.2d 842,
846 (2d Cir.1965). Under these substantive and
procedural principles, although the record indicates that
AFA has not yet suffered actual damages even
approaching $50,000, we have difficulty with the district
court's decision.
First, though AFA did not make an evidentiary showing
in support of its contention that the value of its claims
exceeded $50,000, it was not afforded a proper
opportunity to do so. The issue of the jurisdictional
amount was first raised by the district court sua sponte
at the argument on the summary judgment motion, and
the court rendered its decision at the end of that
argument. To the extent that the court thought AFA
could not meet the jurisdictional minimum, it should
not have dismissed without giving AFA an opportunity
to present substantiation directed toward that issue.
Second, despite AFA's lack of an opportunity to present
evidence addressed directly to the jurisdictional
question, there was evidence in the record to suggest
that the matter could not be conclusively resolved
against it, for the oral arguments made by AFA's
attorney to show that its claims were worth more than
$50,000 had some support from documents already
before the court. For example, he said Whitchurch had
the names of some 1,500 AFA customers; this was
consistent with (a) Whitchurch's own statement that in
the 17 years he was employed by AFA he had led
approximately seven tours each year (thus totaling some
119 tours) and (b) his attorney's statement that there
were usually 10-15 people per tour. If there were no
repeat customers among the persons Whitchurch
escorted, he could have escorted some 1,785 AFA tour
participants (119 × 15). As to AFA's attorney's estimate
that a single tour of this type "[i]s about seven to ten
thousand dollars per customer," the evidence in the
record as to the destination and deluxe nature of the
tours, including evidence that some participants traveled
first class and reserved preferred hotel accommodations,
supports an inference that a 28-day tour could well cost
$10,000 per person.
What this means in terms of loss of earnings to a tour
operator, however, is not revealed by the present
record. AFA's suggestion that the tour operator himself
would earn $10,000 per tourist (i.e., that such a tour
would "produce more than fifty thousand dollars to Mr.
Whitchurch" (Tr. 19 (emphasis added))) does not have
the same record support and seems questionable. The
district court was also undoubtedly correct in its
assumption that many of the persons who traveled to
the South Pacific with Whitchurch during the 17 years
he was with AFA are not likely to travel to that area
again. But it could not be said to a legal certainty that no
one would return to that area. There was ample support
in the record for the proposition that AFA has the
prospects for repeat customers. For example, AFA had
submitted from one of its brochures two pages
excerpting comments from participants in a recent AFA
tour (the commenters being identified only by their
initials and city of residence); nearly one-third of those
quoted indicated that they either had been on other AFA
tours or would hope to go on future AFA tours. Indeed,
an exhibit submitted by Whitchurch stated that one of
the couples in a group he was to escort had been on 11
AFA tours. And two of the 100-200 former AFA South
Pacific tour participants contacted by Whitchurch
signed up for Whitchurch's proposed tour to the same
area. If a tour operator could earn 17% of the price of a
tour, and if Whitchurch were eventually successful in
soliciting even 30 of the approximately 1,500 AFA
participants [937 F.2d 89] he has escorted (i.e., 2%,
which may reflect the ratio of his success on his first
attempt), the profit he could siphon from AFA would
total $51,000. Thus, on the present record, the court
could not conclude to a legal certainty that the value of
AFA's claims did not exceed the jurisdictional minimum.
Further, AFA requested injunctive relief not just against
Whitchurch's solicitation of its customers but also
against any use of the information. Presumably such an
injunction would include a prohibition against
Whitchurch's sale or disclosure of the names and
addresses of AFA's customers to other tour operators
who might be better equipped than Whitchurch to
exploit the information and attract more than 2% of the
persons whose names Whitchurch could provide them.
In addition, AFA's request for punitive damages in the
amount of $250,000 might provide a basis for
satisfaction of the jurisdictional amount. Whether or
not AFA will be able to prove that Whitchurch's
conduct was "gross and wanton" and warrants the
recovery of such damages under New York law is an
open question. But the present record does not foreclose
that possibility.
In all the circumstances, we conclude that the record as
it existed in the district court did not permit the court to
find with legal certainty that the value of AFA's claims
did not exceed $50,000.
B. The Merits of AFA's Trade Secrets Claims
Finally, even if Whitchurch were correct in his
contention that the court dismissed AFA's trade secrets
claims on the merits rather than for lack of jurisdiction,
the dismissal could not stand. The question of whether
or not a customer list is a trade secret is generally a
question of fact. See, e.g., Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Roxen
Service, Inc., 813 F.2d 26, 29-30 (2d Cir.1987); Defiance
Button Machine Co. v. C & C Metal Products Corp., 759
F.2d 1053, 1063 (2d Cir.), cert. denied, 474 U.S. 844, 106
S.Ct. 131, 88 L.Ed.2d 108 (1985); see also 1 Milgrim §
2.03, at 2-47 to 2-49 (1990) ("existence of a trade secret
is a question of fact for the determination of the trier of
fact, secrecy being a basic element"). The answer
depends in part on the subsidiary fact questions of
whether or not the owner took "reasonable measures to
protect [the] secrecy" of the list, see, e.g., id. § 2.04, at 2-
55; Defiance Button Machine Co. v. C & C Metal
Products Corp., 759 F.2d at 1063; and the ease or
difficulty with which the information could properly be
obtained from other sources, see, e.g., id.; Restatement
of Torts § 757, comment b (1939). The mere fact that an
employee has access to information the employer
regards as confidential is not inconsistent with
treatment of the information as a trade secret. The
employer must, however, take appropriate precautions
to alert the employee to the need to maintain the
confidentiality. 1 Milgrim § 2.04, at 2-75 to 2-76.
In assessing the record to determine whether there is a
genuine issue as to any material fact, the court is
required to resolve all ambiguities and draw all factual
inferences in favor of the party against whom summary
judgment is sought. See, e.g., Anderson v. Liberty
Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 255, 106 S.Ct. 2505, 2513-14,
91 L.Ed.2d 202 (1986). As set forth in Part I above, in
opposition to Whitchurch's motion for summary
judgment, AFA submitted several affidavits describing
both the efforts it had made to develop a customer list
that was not available from any other source, and efforts
it had made to prevent dissemination of the names on
that list except to persons actually participating in the
tours and persons who needed to know those names in
order to service the AFA tours. Drawing all permissible
fact inferences in favor of AFA, the court could not have
concluded that as a matter of law the list was not
confidential or was unworthy of protection. The record
as it stands on this question is rife with genuine issues of
fact.
CONCLUSION
We have considered all of Whitchurch's arguments in
support of the district court's judgment and have found
them to be without [937 F.2d 90] merit. The judgment is
vacated, and the matter is remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with the foregoing.