Ten bonds, each for the sum of $1,000, were issued by
the county for the purpose of erecting a court-house in
the county seat of the county; and it appears that the
bonds were made payable to bearer, one each succeeding
year, till the whole were paid, with interest at the rate of
ten per cent per annum. Four of the bonds are the
subject of the present controversy, and the defence is the
estoppel of a prior judgment in favor of the county in a
suit brought to collect certain of the interest warrants
annexed to the bonds.
Sufficient appears to show that the bonds were in due
form, and that they contain the recital that they "were
issued by the county, in accordance with the vote of the
legal voters thereof, at a special election holden on the
day therein mentioned, pursuant to a proclamation
made by the county judge, according to the statute of the
State in such case made and provided."
Annexed to the bonds were the coupons for the
payment of the annual interest, and the plaintiff in the
prior suit, being [94 U.S. 361] the holder of twenty-five
of the coupons, instituted the suit to recover the
amount, and he alleged in his declaration that he was the
holder and owner of the same; that he received the
coupons in good faith before their maturity, and that he
paid value for the same at the time of the transfer; that
the bonds and coupons were issued by the county under
and by virtue of a legal and competent authority, and
that the same are valid and legal claims against the
corporation.
Most of the allegations of the declaration were denied in
the answer; but the defendants did not specifically deny
that the plaintiff paid value for the coupons at the time
he became the holder and owner.
Special findings of the facts were made by the court,
from which it appears that the question whether a
court-house should be built, and whether a tax sufficient
to liquidate the expense should be levied, were duly
submitted to the voters of the county; that the
propositions were adopted at a special election held for
the purpose; that the county judge made the contract for
the erection of the court-house; and that he duly
executed the ten bonds in question, and delivered the
same to the contractor, in pursuance of the contract.
Proof of a satisfactory character was exhibited that the
contract between the judge and the contractor was made
in the county where the judge resided: but the court
found that the bonds were signed, sealed, and delivered
by the judge during his temporary absence in another
county; and the findings show that the plaintiff became
the owner and holder of the coupons before maturity
and after the proceedings were correctly entered in the
minute-book; nor is it found that the plaintiff had any
notice whatever of the supposed irregularities.
Evidence of fraud in the inception of the contract is
entirely wanting, except what may be inferred from the
unexplained fact that the contractor gave one of the
bonds, as a gratuity, to the county judge as soon as he
delivered the same to the contractor. Beyond all doubt,
the contractor proved to be unworthy, as he never
performed his contract, or paid back the consideration.
Judgment was rendered for the defendants in the court
below; and the majority of this court affirmed the
judgment, [94 U.S. 362] holding that the evidence
showed that the bonds were fraudulent in their
inception, and that the plaintiff could not recover,
inasmuch as he did not prove affirmatively that he paid
value for the bonds.
Authorities are not necessary to show that the transferee
of a negotiable instrument made payable to bearer,
subsequent to its date, holds it clothed with the
presumption that it was negotiated to him at the time of
its execution, in the usual course of business and for
value, and without notice of any equities between the
prior parties to the instrument. Goodman v. Harvey, 4
A. & E. 870; Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How 365; Noxon
v. De Wolf, 10 Gray, 346; Ranger v. Cary, 1 Met. 373.
Coupons are written contracts for the payment of a
definite sum of money on a given day, and, being drawn
and executed in a given mode, for the very purpose that
they may be separated from the bonds, it is held that
they are negotiable, and that a suit may be maintained
on them without the necessity of producing the bonds
to which they were attached. Knox County v. Aspinwall,
21 How. 544; White v. Railroad, 21 id. 575; Aurora v.
West, 7 Wall. 105; Murray v. Lardner, 2 id. 121.
Possession of the instrument is plenary evidence of title
until other evidence is produced to control it, the holder
being entitled to the same privileges and immunities as
an indorsee of a bill of exchange or promissory note
payable to bearer or indorsed in blank. He is not subject
to any equities as between the promisor and original
payee, nor to the set-off of any debt, legal or equitable,
which the latter may owe to the former. Pettee v. Prout,
3 Gray, 503.
Title and possession are one and inseparable to clothe
the instrument with the prima facie presumption that it
was indorsed at the date of its execution, and that the
holder paid value for it, and received it in good faith in
the usual course of business, without notice of any prior
equities. Evidence to show that he paid value for the
instrument is unnecessary in the opening of his case; but
the defendant may, if he can, give evidence that the
consideration was illegal, that the instrument was
fraudulent in its inception, or that it had been lost or
stolen [94 U.S. 363] before it was negotiated to the
plaintiff; and, if the defendant proves such a defence, it
will follow that it must prevail, unless the plaintiff
proves that he gave value for the instrument in the usual
course of business, in which event he is still entitled to
recover. Fitch v. Jones, 5 El. & Bl. 238; Smith v. Braine,
16 Q.B. 243; Hall v. Featherstone, 3 Hurls. & Nor. 287.
Applying that rule to the case as it was first presented, it
would seem that the plaintiff should have prevailed, as it
is clear that the defendant did not give any sufficient
evidence to show that the consideration of the
instruments was illegal, or that they were fraudulent in
their inception, or that they had been lost or stolen
before the plaintiff became the holder of the same,
without notice of any prior equities.
Suffice it to remark, in this connection, that these views
were urged against the former judgment; but they did
not prevail, and the judgment was rendered for the
defendant, which is unreversed and in full force. Suit is
now brought upon the bonds to which those coupons
were attached, and the sole question of any importance
is whether the judgment in the former case is a bar to
the present suit.
Nothing can be more certain in legal decision than the
proposition that the title to the bonds and coupons are
the same, as the coupons were annexed to the bonds
when the bonds were executed and delivered to the
original holder, in pursuance of the contract for building
the court-house; and it is equally certain, that if it could
be proved in defence that the consideration was illegal,
or that the instruments were fraudulent in their
inception, or that they had been lost or stolen before
they were negotiated to the holder, the defence would
apply to the bonds as well as the coupons.
Before proceeding to examine the legal question, it
should be remarked that the former suit was prosecuted
in the name of a different plaintiff; but the theory of the
present defendants is that the present plaintiff was the
real owner of the coupons in that action, and that the
action was prosecuted for his sole use and benefit.
Testimony to prove that theory was offered in the court
below, and the majority of the court now hold that
evidence to prove that proposition was properly
admitted. Assume that to be so, and it follows that the
parties, in legal [94 U.S. 364] contemplation, are the
same; nor can it be denied that the cause of action,
within the meaning of that requirement, as expounded
and defined by decided cases of the highest authority, is
the same as that in the former action, the rule being that
the legal effect of the former judgment as a bar is not
impaired, because the subject-matter of the second suit
is different, provided the second suit involves the same
title and depends upon the same question. Outram v.
Morewood, 3 East, 346.
Holders of negotiable securities, as well as every other
plaintiff litigant, are entitled to a full trial upon the
merits of the cause of action; but if in such a trial
judgment be rendered for the defendant, whether it be
upon the verdict of a jury or upon a demurrer to a
sufficient declaration, or to a material pleading
involving the whole merits, the plaintiff can never after
maintain against the same defendant or his privies any
similar or concurrent action for the same cause, upon
the same grounds as those disclosed in the first
declaration, for the reason that the judgment, under
such circumstances, determines the merits of the
controversy, and a final judgment deciding the right
must put an end to the dispute, else the litigation would
be endless. Rex v. Kingston, 20 State Trials, 588;
Kitchen v. Campbell, 2 W. Bl. 831; Clearwater v.
Meredith, 1 Wall. 43; Ricardo v. Garcias, 12 Cl. & Fin.
400.
Allegations of an essential character may be omitted in
the first declaration and be supplied in the second, in
which event the judgment on demurrer in the first suit
is not a bar to the second, for the reason that the merits
of the cause as disclosed in the second declaration were
not heard and decided in the first action. Gilman v.
Rives, 10 Pet. 298; Richardson v. Barton, 24 How. 188;
Aurora City v. West, 7 Wall. 90.
Where the parties and the cause of action are the same,
the prima facie presumption is that the questions
presented for decision were the same, unless it appears
that the merits of the controversy were not involved in
the issue, the rule in such a case being that where every
objection urged in the second suit was open to the party
within the legitimate scope of the pleadings in the first
suit, and that the whole defence might have been
presented in that trial, the matter must be considered as
having passed in rem judicatam, and the former
judgment [94 U.S. 365] in such a case is conclusive
between the parties. Outram v. Morewood, 3 East, 358;
Greathead v. Broomley, 7 Term, 452.
Except in special cases, the plea of res judicata applies
not only to points upon which the court was actually
required to form an opinion and pronounce judgment,
but to every point which properly belonged to the
subject of the issue, and which the parties, exercising
reasonable diligence, might have brought forward at the
time. 2 Taylor, Evid. sect. 1513.
Other text-writers of high authority substantially concur
in that view; as, for example, Mr. Greenleaf says that
"the rule should apply only to that which was directly in
issue, and not to every thing which was incidentally
brought into controversy during the trial;" and the
reason given for that limitation is worthy of notice,
which is, that the evidence must correspond with the
allegations, and be confined to the point in issue; and he
remarks that it is only to the material allegations of one
party that the other can be called to answer, for to such
alone can testimony be regularly adduced, and upon
such an issue only is judgment to be rendered. Pursuant
to those suggestions, he states his conclusion as follows:
"A record, therefore, is not held conclusive as to the
truth of any allegations which were not material nor
traversable, but as to things material and traversable it is
conclusive and final."
Unless the court, in rendering the former judgment, was
called upon to determine the merits, the judgment is
never a complete bar; and it is safe to add, that, if the
trial went off on a technical defect, or because the debt
was not yet due, or because the court had not
jurisdiction, or because of a temporary disability of the
plaintiff or the like, the judgment will be no bar to a
future action. 1 Greenl. Evid. sect. 330.
Since the resolution in Ferrer's Case, 6 Coke, 7, the
general principle has always been conceded, that, when
one is barred in any action, real or personal, by
judgment or demurrer, confession or verdict, he is
barred as to that or a similar action of the like nature for
the same thing for ever. Demurrer for want of equity in
such a case is allowed in chancery, because the whole
matter in controversy is open in the first suit.
Contrary to that rule, a party brought a second bill of
complaint, [94 U.S. 366] and the Vice-Chancellor, in
disposing of the case, expressed himself as follows: —
"Where a given matter becomes the subject of litigation
in and of adjudication by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the court requires the parties to bring
forward their whole case, and will not, except under
special circumstances, permit the same parties to open
the same subject of litigation in respect of matter which
might have been brought forward as part of the subject
in contest, but which was not brought forward, only
because the party has, from negligence, omitted part of
his case."
And he added that the plea of res judicata applies, except
in special cases, not only to points upon which the court
was actually required by the parties to form an opinion
and pronounce a judgment, but to every point which
properly belonged to the subject of litigation, and which
the parties, exercising reasonable diligence, might have
brought forward at the time. Henderson v. Henderson, 3
Hare, Ch. 115; Bagot v. Williams, 3 B. & C. 241; Roberts
v. Heine, 27 Ala. 678; Safford v. Clark, 2 Bing. 382;
Miller v. Covert, 1 Wend. 487.
When a fact has been once determined in the course of a
judicial proceeding, say the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts, and final judgment has been rendered in
accordance therewith, it cannot be again litigated
between the same parties without virtually impeaching
the correctness of the former decision, which, from
motives of public policy, the law does not permit to be
done; and they proceed to say that the estoppel is not
confined to the judgment, but extends to all facts
involved in it, as necessary steps, or the groundwork
upon which it must have been founded. Burlen v.
Shannon, 99 Mass. 203; Queen v. Hartington, 4 El. & Bl.
794; Gilbert v. Thompson, 9 Cush. 349.
Extended explanations upon the subject of estoppel by a
prior judgment were made by this court nearly twenty
years ago, by a judge very competent to perform that
duty. Steam Packet Company v. Sickles, 24 How. 342.
Such a judgment, he said, in order that it may operate as
an estoppel, must have been made by a court of
competent jurisdiction upon the same subject-matter
between the same parties for the same purpose. He then
proceeded to describe the cause of action in that case,
[94 U.S. 367] which, as he stated, was a sum of money,
being a part of the consideration or price for the use of a
valuable machine for which the plaintiffs had a patent;
that the sum demanded was the complement of a whole,
of which the sum demanded in the declaration in the
former suit is the other part. Both declarations
contained similar special counts; and the court
remarked, that a decision in the one suit on those counts
in favor of the plaintiffs necessarily included and
virtually determined the sufficiency of the declaration to
sustain the title of the plaintiffs, and showed that the
record was admissible in evidence.
Different views were entertained by the defendants, and
they submitted the proposition that a judgment was not
admissible in evidence as an estoppel, unless the record
showed that the very point it is sought to estop was
distinctly presented by an issue, and that it was expressly
found by the jury; but the court remarked, that such a
rule would be impracticable, as it would restrict the
operation of res judicata within too narrow bounds, and
the court decided that it was not necessary as between
parties and privies that the record should show that
matter of the estoppel was directly in issue, "but only
that the said matter in controversy might have been
litigated, and that extrinsic evidence would be admitted
to prove that the particular question was material and
was in fact contested, and that it was referred to the
decision of the jury."
Attempt was made in that case to maintain the
proposition that the judgment in the first suit could not
be held to be an estoppel, unless it was shown by the
record that the very point in controversy was distinctly
presented by an issue, and that it was explicitly found by
the jury; but the court held otherwise, and expressly
overruled the proposition, although the defence of
estoppel failed for other reasons.
Two notes, in another case, were given by the purchaser
of a vessel to the vendor of the same, and payment of the
first note being refused, the payee sued the maker; and
the maker, at the trial, set up as a defence that the vessel
was rotten and unseaworthy at the time of sale, and that
those facts were known to the plaintiff. They went to
trial, and the verdict and judgment were for the
defendant. Subsequently the plaintiff sued [94 U.S. 368]
the other note, and the defendant set up the judgment in
the other case as a bar to the suit; and the Supreme
Court of New York sustained the defence, holding that
the former judgment, whether pleaded as an estoppel or
given in evidence under the general issue, was
conclusive that the sale was fraudulent, and that the
plaintiff could not recover in the second action. Gardner
v. Buckbee, 3 Cow. 127.
Certain sums of money, in a later case, were paid by a
surety on two bonds given by an importer, in which the
plaintiff and defendant were sureties. They were jointly
liable; but the plaintiff paid the whole amount, and
brought suit against the other surety for contribution.
Service was made; and the defendant appeared and set
up the defence that he had been released, with the
consent of the plaintiff, before the payment was made;
and the court sustained the defence upon demurrer, and
gave judgment for the defendant.
Moneys were also paid by the same surety to discharge
the liability under the second bond. Contribution being
refused, the plaintiff brought a second suit, and the
defendant set up the former judgment as a bar; and the
court sustained the defence, it appearing that both bonds
were given at the same time upon the same
consideration, and as part of one and the same
transaction. Bouchard v. Dias, 3 Den. 243.
Neither of the second suits in the two preceding cases
were for the same cause of action as the first, but the
defence was sustained as in Outram v. Morewood, 3
East, 358, because the suit was founded upon the same
title.
Cases of that kind are quite numerous, and they show to
a demonstration that a judgment may be a bar if the
same title is involved, even though the cause of action
may be founded on a different instrument, or for a
different trespass upon the same premises.
Conclusive support to that proposition is found in
repeated decisions, of which the following are striking
examples: Burt v. Sternburgh, 4 Cow. 563; Whittaker v.
Jackson, 2 Hurlst. & Colt. 931; Strutt v. Bovingdon, 5
Esp. 59.
In order to make a judgment conclusive, it is not
necessary, said Mr. Justice Bigelow, that the cause of
action should be the same in the first suit as that in
which the judgment is pleaded [94 U.S. 369] or given in
evidence, but it is essential that the issue should be the
same. The judgment is then coextensive with the issue
on which it is founded, and is conclusive only so far as
the same fact or title is again in dispute. Merriam v.
Whittemore, 5 Gray, 317.
Decided cases in that State to the same effect are
numerous, the highest court of the State holding that it
is well settled that a judgment in a former suit between
the same parties is a bar to a subsequent action only
when the point or question in issue is the same in both;
that the judgment is conclusive in relation to all matters
in the suit which were put in issue, but has no effect
upon questions not involved in the issue, and which
were neither open to inquiry nor the subjects of
litigation. Norton v. Huxley, 13 id. 290.
Damages were claimed by the plaintiff for the loss of his
shop by fire communicated to it by the defendants'
locomotive engine, and he recovered judgment for the
injury. He subsequently brought a second suit, for the
loss of his dwelling-house and shed by fire, it appearing
that the house and shed took fire from the shop. Process
being served, the defendants appeared and set up the
former judgment as a bar. The court sustained the
defence, holding that the plaintiff did not show any right
to maintain another action merely by proving his
omission to produce upon the trial all the evidence
which was admissible in his behalf, and that having
chosen to submit his case upon the evidence introduced,
he was bound to abide by the verdict and judgment in
the first suit. Trask v. Railroad, 2 Allen, 332.
Where a party took a bill of sale of property from the
owner, and the same was subsequently attached by an
officer at the suit of the creditors of the former owner,
and the purchaser under the bill of sale having
converted part of the property to his own use was sued
by the officer, and the latter recovered judgment upon
the ground that the bill of sale was fraudulent and void
as to the creditors, it was held that the judgment was a
bar to a subsequent suit of replevin commenced by the
grantee in the bill of sale for the residue of the property
in the hands of the officer. Doty v. Brown, 4 Comst. 75.
Beyond question, the bar is not defeated because the
subject-matter [94 U.S. 370] of the second suit is
different from the first, if it be founded on the same
title; and the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania have held,
in accordance with that view, that a judgment in
trespass upon a traverse of liberum tenementum estops
the party against whom it has been rendered, and his
privies, from afterward controverting the title to the
same freehold in a subsequent action of trespass. Stevens
v. Hughes, 31 Penn. St. 385; Hatch v. Garza, 22 Tex.
187; Clark v. Sammons, 12 Iowa, 370.
Tested by these several considerations, it is clear that a
former judgment is a bar in all cases where the matters
put in issue in the first suit were the same as the matters
in issue in the second suit. Ricardo v. Garcias, 12 Cl. &
Fin. 401; Beloit v. Morgan. 7 Wall. 623. "It results from
these authorities that an adjudication by a competent
tribunal is conclusive, not only in the proceeding in
which it is pronounced, but in every other where the
right or title is the same, although the cause of action
may be different." 2 Smith, Lead. Cas. (7th Am. ed.) 788,
789; Bigelow on Estoppel (2d ed.), 45; Aurora City v.
West, 7 Wall. 96; Outram v. Morewood, 3 East, 346;
Gould v. Railroad Company, 91 U.S. 526.
Grant that, and still it is suggested that the plaintiff in
the suit on the coupons did not introduce evidence to
prove that he paid value for the bonds with the coupons;
but the answer to that is, that he might have done so. He
alleged in the declaration that he paid value, and
consequently he might have given evidence to prove it,
which shows that the question was directly involved in
the issue between the parties.
Doubtless the plaintiff neglected to give evidence in that
behalf, for the reason that he and his counsel were of the
opinion that the evidence introduced by the defendants
was not sufficient to repel the prima facie presumption,
arising from his possession of the instruments, that he
paid value for the transfer, and I am still of that opinion;
but the remedy of the plaintiff, if surprised, was to
except to the ruling, or to submit a motion for new trial.
Suggestions of that sort are now too late, nor are they
sufficient to modify the effect of the judgment. When
once finally rendered, the judgment must be considered
conclusive, else litigation [94 U.S. 371] will be endless.
Litigants sometimes prefer not to bring forward their
whole case or defence, in order to enjoy the opportunity
to bring up a reserve in case of defeat in the first contest;
but a rule which would sanction that practice would be
against public policy, as it would enable a party to
protract the litigation as long as he could find means or
credit to compel the attendance of witnesses and to
secure the services of counsel.