This was an action on four bonds of the county of Sac,
in [94 U.S. 352] the State of Iowa, each for $1,000, and
four coupons for interest, attached to them, each for
$100. The bonds were issued in 1860, and were made
payable to bearer, in the city of New York, in the years
1868, 1869, 1870, and 1871, respectively, with annual
interest at the rate of ten per cent a year.
To defeat this action, the defendant relied upon the
estoppel of a judgment rendered in favor of the county
in a prior action brought by one Samuel C. Smith upon
certain earlier maturing coupons on the same bonds,
accompanied with proof that the plaintiff Cromwell was
at the time the owner of the coupons in that action, and
that the action was prosecuted for his sole use and
benefit.
The questions presented for our determination relate to
the operation of this judgment as an estoppel against the
prosecution of the present action, and the admissibility
of the evidence to connect the present plaintiff with the
former action as a real party in interest.
In considering the operation of this judgment, it should
be borne in mind, as stated by counsel, that there is a
difference between the effect of a judgment as a bar or
estoppel against the prosecution of a second action upon
the same claim or demand, and its effect as an estoppel
in another action between the same parties upon a
different claim or cause of action. In the former case, the
judgment, if rendered upon the merits, constitutes an
absolute bar to a subsequent action. It is a finality as to
the claim or demand in controversy, concluding parties
and those in privity with them, not only as to every
matter which was offered and received to sustain or
defeat the claim or demand, but as to any other
admissible matter which might have been offered for
that purpose. Thus, for example, a judgment rendered
upon a promissory note is conclusive as to the validity of
the instrument and the amount due upon it, although it
be subsequently alleged that perfect defences actually
existed, of which no proof was offered, such as forgery,
want of consideration, or payment. If such defences
were not presented in the action, and established by
competent evidence, the subsequent allegation of their
existence is of no legal consequence. The judgment is as
conclusive, so far as future proceedings at law [94 U.S.
353] are concerned, as though the defences never
existed. The language, therefore, which is so often used,
that a judgment estops not only as to every ground of
recovery or defence actually presented in the action, but
also as to every ground which might have been
presented, is strictly accurate, when applied to the
demand or claim in controversy. Such demand or claim,
having passed into judgment, cannot again be brought
into litigation between the parties in proceedings at law
upon any ground whatever.
But where the second action between the same parties is
upon a different claim or demand, the judgment in the
prior action operates as an estoppel only as to those
matters in issue or points controverted, upon the
determination of which the finding or verdict was
rendered. In all cases, therefore, where it is sought to
apply the estoppel of a judgment rendered upon one
cause of action to matters arising in a suit upon a
different cause of action, the inquiry must always be as
to the point or question actually litigated and
determined in the original action, not what might have
been thus litigated and determined. Only upon such
matters is the judgment conclusive in another action.
The difference in the operation of a judgment in the two
classes of cases mentioned is seen through all the leading
adjudications upon the doctrine of estoppel. Thus, in the
case of Outram v. Morewood, 3 East, 346, the
defendants were held estopped from averring title to a
mine, in an action of trespass for digging out coal from
it, because, in a previous action for a similar trespass,
they had set up the same title, and it had been
determined against them. In commenting upon a
decision cited in that case, Lord Ellenborough, in his
elaborate opinion, said: "It is not the recovery, but the
matter alleged by the party, and upon which the
recovery proceeds, which creates the estoppel. The
recovery of itself in an action of trespass is only a bar to
the future recovery of damages for the same injury; but
the estoppel precludes parties and privies from
contending to the contrary of that point or matter of
fact, which, having been once distinctly put in issue by
them, or by those to whom they are privy in estate or
law, has been, on such issue joined, solemnly found
against them." And in the [94 U.S. 354] case of Gardner
v. Buckbee, 3 Cowen, 120, it was held by the Supreme
Court of New York that a verdict and judgment in the
Marine Court of the city of New York, upon one of two
notes given upon a sale of a vessel, that the sale was
fraudulent, the vessel being at the time unseaworthy,
were conclusive upon the question of the character of
the sale in an action upon the other note between the
same parties in the Court of Common Pleas. The rule
laid down in the celebrated opinion in the case of the
Duchess of Kingston was cited, and followed: "That the
judgment of a court of concurrent jurisdiction directly
upon the point is as a plea a bar, or as evidence
conclusive between the same parties upon the same
matter directly in question in another court."
These cases, usually cited in support of the doctrine that
the determination of a question directly involved in one
action is conclusive as to that question in a second suit
between the same parties upon a different cause of
action, negative the proposition that the estoppel can
extend beyond the point actually litigated and
determined. The argument in these cases, that a
particular point was necessarily involved in the finding
in the original action, proceeded upon the theory that, if
not thus involved, the judgment would be inoperative as
an estoppel. In the case of Miles v. Caldwell, reported in
the 2d of Wallace, a judgment in ejectment in Missouri,
where actions of that kind stand, with respect to the
operation of a recovery therein, as a bar or estoppel, in
the same position as other actions, was held by this
court conclusive, in a subsequent suit in equity between
the parties respecting the title, upon the question of the
satisfaction of the mortgage under which the plaintiff
claimed title to the premises in the ejectment, and the
question as to the fraudulent character of the mortgage
under which the defendant claimed, because these
questions had been submitted to the jury in that action,
and had been passed upon by them. The court held, after
full consideration, that in cases of tort, equally as in
those arising upon contract, where the form of the issue
was so vague as not to show the questions of fact
submitted to the jury, it was competent to prove by
parol testimony what question or questions of fact were
thus submitted and necessarily passed upon by them;
and [94 U.S. 355] by inevitable implication also held that,
in the absence of proof in such cases, the verdict and
judgment were inconclusive, except as to the particular
trespass alleged, whatever possible questions might have
been raised and determined.
But it is not necessary to take this doctrine as a matter of
inference from these cases. The precise point has been
adjudged in numerous instances. It was so adjudged by
this court in the case of The Washington, Alexandria, &
Georgetown Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles, reported in the
24th of Howard. In that case, an action was brought
upon a special parol contract for the use of Sickles's cutoff
for saving fuel in the working of steam-engines, by
which the plaintiffs, who had a patent for the cut-off,
were to attach one of their machines to the engine of the
defendants' boat, and were to receive for its use threefourths
of the saving of fuel thus produced, the
payments to be made from time to time when
demanded. To ascertain the saving of fuel an experiment
was to be made in a specified manner, and the result
taken as the rate of saving during the continuance of the
contract. The plaintiffs in their declaration averred that
the experiment had been made, at the rate of saving
ascertained, and that the cut-off had been used on the
boat until the commencement of the suit. In a prior
action against the same defendant for an instalment due,
where the declaration set forth the same contract in two
counts, the first of which was similar to the counts in
the second action, and also the common counts, the
plaintiffs had obtained verdict and judgment; and it was
insisted that the defendant was estopped by the verdict
and judgment produced from proving that there was no
such contract as that declared upon, or that no saving of
fuel had been obtained, or that the experiment was not
made pursuant to the contract, or that the verdict was
rendered upon all the issues, and not upon the first
count specially. The Circuit Court assented to these
views, and excluded the testimony offered by the
defendants to prove those facts. But this court reversed
the decision, and held that the defendants were not thus
estopped.
"The record produced by the plaintiffs," said the court,
"showed that the first suit was brought apparently upon
the same contract as the second, and that the existence
and validity [94 U.S. 356] of that contract might have
been litigated. But the verdict might have been rendered
upon the entire declaration, and without special
reference to the first count. It was competent to the
defendants to show the state of facts that existed at the
trial, with a view to ascertain what was the matter
decided upon by the verdict of the jury. It may have
been that there was no contest in reference to the
fairness of the experiment, or to its sufficiency to
ascertain the premium to be paid for the use of the
machine at the first trial, or it may have been that the
plaintiffs abandoned their special counts and recovered
their verdict upon the general counts. The judgment
rendered in that suit, while it remains in force, and for
the purpose of maintaining its validity, is conclusive of
all the facts properly pleaded by the plaintiffs; but when
it is presented as testimony in another suit, the inquiry
is competent whether the same issue has been tried and
settled by it."
It is not believed that there are any cases going to the
extent that because in the prior action a different
question from that actually determined might have
arisen and been litigated, therefore such possible
question is to be considered as excluded from
consideration in a second action between the same
parties on a different demand, although loose remarks
looking in that direction may be found in some
opinions. On principle, a point not in litigation in one
action cannot be received as conclusively settled in any
subsequent action upon a different cause, because it
might have been determined in the first action.
Various considerations, other than the actual merits,
may govern a party in bringing forward grounds of
recovery or defence in one action, which may not exist
in another action upon a different demand, such as the
smallness of the amount or the value of the property in
controversy, the difficulty of obtaining the necessary
evidence, the expense of the litigation, and his own
situation at the time. A party acting upon considerations
like these ought not to be precluded from contesting in a
subsequent action other demands arising out of the
same transaction. A judgment by default only admits for
the purpose of the action the legality of the demand or
claim in suit: it does not make the allegations of the
declaration or complaint evidence in an action upon a
different claim. The declaration [94 U.S. 357] may
contain different statements of the cause of action in
different counts. It could hardly be pretended that a
judgment by default in such a case would make the
several statements evidence in any other proceeding.
Boyleau v. Rutlin, 2 Exch. 665, 681; Hughes v.
Alexander, 5 Duer, 493.
The case of Howlett v. Tarte, 10 C.B.N.S. 813, supports
this view. That was an action for rent, under a building
agreement. The defendant pleaded a subsequent
agreement, changing the tenancy into one from year to
year, and its determination by notice to quit before the
time for which the rent sued for was alleged to have
accrued. The plaintiff replied that he had recovered a
judgment in a former action against the defendant for
rent under the same agreement, which had accrued after
the alleged determination of the tenancy, in which
action the defendant did not set up the defence pleaded
in the second action. On demurrer, the replication, after
full argument, was held bad. In deciding the case, Mr.
Justice Willes said: "It is quite right that a defendant
should be estopped from setting up in the same action a
defence which he might have pleaded, but has chosen to
let the proper time go by. But nobody ever heard of a
defendant being precluded from setting up a defence in a
second action because he did not avail himself of the
opportunity of setting it up in the first action... . I think
we should do wrong to favor the introduction of this
new device into the law." Mr. Justice Byles said: "It is
plain that there is no authority for saying that the
defendant is precluded from setting up this defence."
Mr. Justice Keating said: "This is an attempt on the part
of the plaintiff to extend the doctrine of estoppel far
beyond what any of the authorities warrant."
The language of the Vice-Chancellor, in the case of
Henderson v. Henderson, 3 Hare, 100, 115, is sometimes
cited as expressing a different opinion; but, upon
examining the facts of that case, it will appear that the
language used in no respect conflicts with the doctrine
we have stated. In that case, a bill had been filed in the
Supreme Court of Newfoundland, by the next of kin of
an intestate, against A. and others, for an account of an
estate and of certain partnership transactions. A decree
was rendered against A., upon which the next of kin
brought actions in England. A. then filed a bill there
against the next [94 U.S. 358] of kin and personal
representative of the intestate, stating that the intestate's
estate was indebted to him, and alleging various errors
and irregularities in the proceedings in the Supreme
Court of the island, and praying that the estate of the
intestate might be administered, the partnership
accounts taken, and the amount of the debt due to him
ascertained and paid. A demurrer to the bill was allowed
for want of equity, on the ground that the whole of the
matters were in question between the parties, and might
properly have been the subject of adjudication in the suit
before that court. It was with reference to the necessity
of having the subject of particular litigation, as a whole,
at once before the court, and not by piecemeal, that the
Vice-Chancellor said: —
"In trying this question, I believe I state the rule of court
correctly, that when a given matter becomes the subject
of litigation in and of adjudication by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the court requires the parties to
bring forward their whole case, and will not, except
under special circumstances, permit the same parties to
open the same subject of litigation in respect of matter
which might have been brought forward as part of the
subject in controversy, but which was not brought
forward, only because they have, from negligence,
inadvertence, or even accident, omitted part of the case.
The plea of res adjudicata applies, except in special cases,
not only to the points upon which the court was
required by the parties to form an opinion, and
pronounce a judgment, but to every point which
properly belonged to the subject of litigation, and which
the parties, exercising reasonable diligence, might have
brought forward at the time."
There is nothing in this language, applied to the facts of
the case, which gives support to the doctrine that,
whenever in one action a party might have brought
forward a particular ground of recovery or defence, and
neglected to do so, he is, in a subsequent suit between
the same parties upon a different cause of action,
precluded from availing himself of such ground.
If, now, we consider the main question presented for
our determination by the light of the views thus
expressed and the authorities cited, its solution will not
be difficult. It appears from the findings in the original
action of Smith, that the county of Sac, by a vote of its
people, authorized the issue of [94 U.S. 359] bonds to the
amount of $10,000, for the erection of a court-house;
that bonds to that amount were issued by the county
judge, and delivered to one Meserey, with whom he had
made a contract for the erection of the court-house; that
immediately upon receipt of the bonds the contractor
gave one of them as a gratuity to the county judge; and
that the court-house was never constructed by the
contractor, or by any other person pursuant to the
contract. It also appears that the plaintiff had become,
before their maturity, the holder of twenty-five
coupons, which had been attached to the bonds, but
there was no finding that he had ever given any value
for them. The court below held, upon these findings,
that the bonds were void as against the county, and gave
judgment accordingly. The case coming here on writ of
error, this court held that the facts disclosed by the
findings were sufficient evidence of fraud and illegality
in the inception of the bonds to call upon the holder to
show that he had given value for the coupons; and, not
having done so, the judgment was affirmed. Reading the
record of the lower court by the opinion and judgment
of this court, it must be considered that the matters
adjudged in that case were these: that the bonds were
void as against the county in the hands of parties who
did not acquire them before maturity and give value for
them, and that the plaintiff, not having proved that he
gave such value, was not entitled to recover upon the
coupons. Whatever illegality or fraud there was in the
issue and delivery to the contractor of the bonds affected
equally the coupons for interest attached to them. The
finding and judgment upon the invalidity of the bonds,
as against the county, must be held to estop the plaintiff
here from averring to the contrary. But as the bonds
were negotiable instruments, and their issue was
authorized by a vote of the county, and they recite on
their face a compliance with the law providing for their
issue, they would be held as valid obligations against the
county in the hands of a bona fide holder taking them
for value before maturity, according to repeated
decisions of this court upon the character of such
obligations. If, therefore, the plaintiff received the bond
and coupons in suit before maturity for value, as he
offered to prove, he should have been permitted to show
that fact. There was [94 U.S. 360] nothing adjudged in
the former action in the finding that the plaintiff had
not made such proof in that case which can preclude the
present plaintiff from making such proof here. The fact
that a party may not have shown that he gave value for
one bond or coupon is not even presumptive, much less
conclusive, evidence that he may not have given value
for another and different bond or coupon. The
exclusion of the evidence offered by the plaintiff was
erroneous, and for the ruling of the court in that respect
the judgment must be reversed and a new trial had.
Upon the second question presented, we think the court
below ruled correctly. Evidence showing that the action
of Smith was brought for the sole use and benefit of the
present plaintiff was, in our judgment, admissible. The
finding that Smith was the holder and owner of the
coupons in suit went only to this extent, that he held the
legal title to them, which was sufficient for the purpose
of the action, and was not inconsistent with an equitable
and beneficial interest in another.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded for a new trial.