I. INTRODUCTION
We granted review in this case to determine whether
plaintiff has stated a cause of action against his physician
and other defendants for using his cells 
[51 Cal.3d 125]
in
potentially lucrative medical research without his
permission. Plaintiff alleges that his physician failed to
disclose preexisting research and economic interests in
the cells before obtaining consent to the medical
procedures by which they were extracted. The superior
court sustained all defendants' demurrers to the third
amended complaint, and the Court of Appeal reversed.
We hold that the complaint states a cause of action for
breach of the physician's disclosure obligations, but not
for conversion.
II. FACTS
(1) Our only task in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer is
to determine whether the complaint states a cause of
action. Accordingly, we assume that the complaint's
properly pleaded material allegations are true and give
the complaint a reasonable interpretation by reading it
as a whole and all its parts in their context. (Phillips v.
Desert Hospital Dist. (1989) 49 Cal.3d 699, 702 [263
Cal.Rptr. 119, 780 P.2d 349]; Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318 [216 Cal.Rptr. 718, 703 P.2d 58];
Tameny v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980) 27 Cal.3d 167,
170 [164 Cal.Rptr. 839, 610 P.2d 1330, 9 A.L.R.4th
314].) We do not, however, assume the truth of
contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.
(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713 [63
Cal.Rptr. 724, 433 P.2d 732].) For these purposes we
briefly summarize the pertinent factual allegations of the
50-page complaint.
The plaintiff is John Moore (Moore), who underwent
treatment for hairy-cell leukemia at the Medical Center
of the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA
Medical Center). The five defendants are: (1) Dr. David
W. Golde (Golde), a physician who attended Moore at
UCLA Medical Center; (2) the Regents of the University
of California (Regents), who own and operate the
university; (3) Shirley G. Quan, a researcher employed
by the Regents; (4) Genetics Institute, Inc. (Genetics
Institute); and (5) Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation
and related entities (collectively Sandoz).
Moore first visited UCLA Medical Center on October 5,
1976, shortly after he learned that he had hairy-cell
leukemia. After hospitalizing Moore and
"withdr[awing] extensive amounts of blood, bone
marrow aspirate, and other bodily substances," Golde
1
confirmed that diagnosis. At this time all 
[51 Cal.3d 126]
defendants, including Golde, were aware that "certain
blood products and blood components were of great
value in a number of commercial and scientific efforts"
and that access to a patient whose blood contained these
substances would provide "competitive, commercial,
and scientific advantages."
On October 8, 1976, Golde recommended that Moore's
spleen be removed. Golde informed Moore "that he had
reason to fear for his life, and that the proposed
splenectomy operation ... was necessary to slow down
the progress of his disease." Based upon Golde's
representations, Moore signed a written consent form
authorizing the splenectomy.
Before the operation, Golde and Quan "formed the
intent and made arrangements to obtain portions of
[Moore's] spleen following its removal" and to take
them to a separate research unit. Golde gave written
instructions to this effect on October 18 and 19, 1976.
These research activities "were not intended to have ...
any relation to [Moore's] medical ... care." However,
neither Golde nor Quan informed Moore of their plans
to conduct this research or requested his permission.
Surgeons at UCLA Medical Center, whom the
complaint does not name as defendants, removed
Moore's spleen on October 20, 1976.
Moore returned to the UCLA Medical Center several
times between November 1976 and September 1983. He
did so at Golde's direction and based upon
representations "that such visits were necessary and
required for his health and well-being, and based upon
the trust inherent in and by virtue of the physician-
patient relationship...." On each of these visits Golde
withdrew additional samples of "blood, blood serum,
skin, bone marrow aspirate, and sperm." On each
occasion Moore travelled to the UCLA Medical Center
from his home in Seattle because he had been told that
the procedures were to be performed only there and
only under Golde's direction.
"In fact, [however,] throughout the period of time that
[Moore] was under [Golde's] care and treatment, ... the
defendants were actively involved in a number of
activities which they concealed from [Moore]...."
Specifically, defendants were conducting research on
Moore's cells and planned to "benefit financially and
competitively ... [by exploiting the cells] and [their]
exclusive access to [the cells] by virtue of [Golde's]
ongoing physician-patient relationship...."
[51 Cal.3d 127]
 Sometime before August 1979, Golde
established a cell line from Moore's T-lymphocytes.
2 
 On
January 30, 1981, the Regents applied for a patent on the
cell line, listing Golde and Quan as inventors. "[B]y
virtue of an established policy ..., [the] Regents, Golde,
and Quan would share in any royalties or profits...
arising out of [the] patent." The patent issued on March
20, 1984, naming Golde and Quan as the inventors of
the cell line and the Regents as the assignee of the
patent. (U.S. Patent No. 4,438,032 (Mar. 20, 1984).)
The Regent's patent also covers various methods for
using the cell line to produce lymphokines.
3 
 Moore
admits in his complaint that "the true clinical potential
of each of the lymphokines ... [is] difficult to predict,
[but] ... competing commercial firms in these relevant
fields have published reports in biotechnology industry
periodicals predicting a potential market of
approximately $3.01 Billion Dollars by the year 1990 for
a whole range of [such lymphokines]...."
With the Regents' assistance, Golde negotiated
agreements for commercial development of the cell line
and products to be derived from it. Under an agreement
with Genetics Institute, Golde "became a paid
consultant" and "acquired the rights to 75,000 shares of
common stock." Genetics Institute also agreed to pay
Golde and the Regents "at least $330,000 over three
years, including a pro-rata share of [Golde's] salary and
fringe benefits, in exchange for ... exclusive access to the
materials and research performed" on the cell line and
products derived from it. On June 4, 1982, 
[51 Cal.3d
128]
 Sandoz "was added to the agreement," and
compensation payable to Golde and the Regents was
increased by $110,000. "[T]hroughout this period, ...
Quan spent as much as 70 [percent] of her time working
for [the] Regents on research" related to the cell line.
Based upon these allegations, Moore attempted to state
13 causes of action.
4 
 Each defendant demurred to each
purported cause of action. The superior court, however,
expressly considered the validity of only the first cause
of action, conversion.
5 
 Reasoning that the remaining
causes of action incorporated the earlier, defective
allegations, the superior court sustained a general
demurrer to the entire complaint with leave to amend.
In a subsequent proceeding, the superior court sustained
Genetics Institute's and Sandoz's demurrers without
leave to amend on the grounds that Moore had not
stated a cause of action for conversion and that the
complaint's allegations about the entities' secondary
liability were too conclusory. In accordance with its
earlier ruling that the defective allegations about
conversion rendered the entire complaint insufficient,
the superior court took the remaining demurrers off its
calendar.
With one justice dissenting, the Court of Appeal
reversed, holding that the complaint did state a cause of
action for conversion. The Court of Appeal agreed with
the superior court that the allegations against Genetics
Institute and Sandoz were insufficient, but directed the
superior court to give Moore leave to amend. The Court
of Appeal also directed the superior court to decide "the
remaining causes of action, which [had] never been
expressly ruled upon."
III. DISCUSSION
A. Breach of Fiduciary Duty and Lack of
Informed Consent
(2a) Moore repeatedly alleges that Golde failed to
disclose the extent of his research and economic
interests in Moore's cells
6 
 before obtaining consent to
the medical procedures by which the cells were
extracted. These allegations, in our view, state a cause of
action against Golde for invading a 
[51 Cal.3d 129]
legally protected interest of his patient. This cause of
action can properly be characterized either as the breach
of a fiduciary duty to disclose facts material to the
patient's consent or, alternatively, as the performance of
medical procedures without first having obtained the
patient's informed consent.
(3) Our analysis begins with three well-established
principles. First, "a person of adult years and in sound
mind has the right, in the exercise of control over his
own body, to determine whether or not to submit to
lawful medical treatment." (Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8
Cal.3d 229, 242 [104 Cal.Rptr. 505, 502 P.2d 1]; cf.
Schloendorff v. New York Hospital (1914) 211 N.Y. 125
[105 N.E. 92, 93].) Second, "the patient's consent to
treatment, to be effective, must be an informed
consent." (Cobbs v. Grant, supra, 8 Cal.3d at p. 242.)
Third, in soliciting the patient's consent, a physician has
a fiduciary duty to disclose all information material to
the patient's decision. (Id., at pp. 242, 246; see also
Stafford v. Schultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 777 [270 P.2d
1]; Nelson v. Gaunt (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 623, 635
[178 Cal.Rptr. 167]; Berkey v. Anderson (1969) 1
Cal.App.3d 790, 805 [82 Cal.Rptr. 67]; Bowman v.
McPheeters (1947) 77 Cal.App.2d 795, 800 [176 P.2d
745].)
These principles lead to the following conclusions: (1) a
physician must disclose personal interests unrelated to
the patient's health, whether research or economic, that
may affect the physician's professional judgment; and (2)
a physician's failure to disclose such interests may give
rise to a cause of action for performing medical
procedures without informed consent or breach of
fiduciary duty.
To be sure, questions about the validity of a patient's
consent to a procedure typically arise when the patient
alleges that the physician failed to disclose medical risks,
as in malpractice cases, and not when the patient alleges
that the physician had a personal interest, as in this case.
The concept of informed consent, however, is broad
enough to encompass the latter. "The scope of the
physician's communication to the patient ... must be
measured by the patient's need, and that need is
whatever information is material to the decision."
(Cobbs v. Grant, supra, 8 Cal.3d at p. 245.)
Indeed, the law already recognizes that a reasonable
patient would want to know whether a physician has an
economic interest that might affect the physician's
professional judgment. As the Court of Appeal has said,
"[c]ertainly a sick patient deserves to be free of any
reasonable suspicion that his doctor's judgment is
influenced by a profit motive." (Magan Medical Clinic v.
Cal. State Bd. of Medical Examiners (1967) 249
Cal.App.2d 124, 132 [57 Cal.Rptr. 256].) The desire to
protect patients from possible conflicts of interest has
also motivated legislative enactments. Among these is
Business and Professions Code section 654.2. Under that
section, a physician 
[51 Cal.3d 130]
 may not charge a
patient on behalf of, or refer a patient to, any
organization in which the physician has a "significant
beneficial interest, unless [the physician] first discloses
in writing to the patient, that there is such an interest
and advises the patient that the patient may choose any
organization for the purposes of obtaining the services
ordered or requested by [the physician]." (Bus. & Prof.
Code, 
§
 654.2, subd. (a). See also Bus. & Prof. Code, 
§
654.1 [referrals to clinical laboratories].) Similarly,
under Health and Safety Code section 24173, a physician
who plans to conduct a medical experiment on a patient
must, among other things, inform the patient of "[t]he
name of the sponsor or funding source, if any, ... and the
organization, if any, under whose general aegis the
experiment is being conducted."
7 
 (Health & Saf. Code, 
§
24173, subd. (c)(9).)
It is important to note that no law prohibits a physician
from conducting research in the same area in which he
practices. Progress in medicine often depends upon
physicians, such as those practicing at the university
hospital where Moore received treatment, who conduct
research while caring for their patients.
Yet a physician who treats a patient in whom he also has
a research interest has potentially conflicting loyalties.
This is because medical treatment decisions are made on
the basis of proportionality — weighing the benefits to
the patient against the risks to the patient. As another
court has said, "the determination as to whether the
burdens of treatment are worth enduring for any
individual patient depends upon the facts unique in each
case," and "the patient's interests and desires are the key
ingredients of the decision-making process." (Barber v.
Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1006, 1018-1019
[195 Cal.Rptr. 484, 47 A.L.R.4th 1].) A physician who
adds his own research interests to this balance may be
tempted to order a scientifically useful procedure or test
that offers marginal, or no, benefits to the patient.
8 
 The
possibility that an interest extraneous to the patient's
health has affected the physician's judgment is
something that a reasonable patient would want to
know in deciding whether to consent to a proposed
course of treatment. It is material to the patient's
decision and, thus, a prerequisite to informed consent.
(See Cobbs v. Grant, supra, 8 Cal.3d at p. 245.)
[51 Cal.3d 131]
 Golde argues that the scientific use of
cells that have already been removed cannot possibly
affect the patient's medical interests. The argument is
correct in one instance but not in another. If a physician
has no plans to conduct research on a patient's cells at
the time he recommends the medical procedure by
which they are taken, then the patient's medical interests
have not been impaired. In that instance the argument is
correct. On the other hand, a physician who does have a
preexisting research interest might, consciously or
unconsciously, take that into consideration in
recommending the procedure. In that instance the
argument is incorrect: the physician's extraneous
motivation may affect his judgment and is, thus,
material to the patient's consent.
We acknowledge that there is a competing
consideration. To require disclosure of research and
economic interests may corrupt the patient's own
judgment by distracting him from the requirements of
his health.
9 
 But California law does not grant physicians
unlimited discretion to decide what to disclose. Instead,
"it is the prerogative of the patient, not the physician, to
determine for himself the direction in which he believes
his interests lie." (Cobbs v. Grant, supra, 8 Cal.3d at p.
242.) "Unlimited discretion in the physician is
irreconcilable with the basic right of the patient to make
the ultimate informed decision...." (Id., at p. 243.)
Accordingly, we hold that a physician who is seeking a
patient's consent for a medical procedure must, in order
to satisfy his fiduciary duty
10 
 and to obtain the patient's
informed consent, disclose personal interests unrelated
[51 Cal.3d 132]
 to the patient's health, whether research
or economic, that may affect his medical judgment.
1. Dr. Golde
(2b) We turn now to the allegations of Moore's third
amended complaint to determine whether he has stated
such a cause of action. We first discuss the adequacy of
Moore's allegations against Golde, based upon the
physician's disclosures prior to the splenectomy.
Moore alleges that, prior to the surgical removal of his
spleen, Golde "formed the intent and made
arrangements to obtain portions of his spleen following
its removal from [Moore] in connection with [his]
desire to have regular and continuous access to, and
possession of, [Moore's] unique and rare Blood and
Bodily Substances." Moore was never informed prior to
the splenectomy of Golde's "prior formed intent" to
obtain a portion of his spleen. In our view, these
allegations adequately show that Golde had an
undisclosed research interest in Moore's cells at the time
he sought Moore's consent to the splenectomy.
Accordingly, Moore has stated a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty, or lack of informed consent,
based upon the disclosures accompanying that medical
procedure.
We next discuss the adequacy of Golde's alleged
disclosures regarding the postoperative takings of blood
and other samples. In this context, Moore alleges that
Golde "expressly, affirmatively and impliedly
represented ... that these withdrawals of his Blood and
Bodily Substances were necessary and required for his
health and well-being." However, Moore also alleges
that Golde actively concealed his economic interest in
Moore's cells during this time period. "[D]uring each of
these visits ..., and even when [Moore] inquired as to
whether there was any possible or potential commercial
or financial value or significance of his Blood and Bodily
Substances, or whether the defendants had discovered
anything ... which was or might be ... related to any
scientific activity resulting in commercial or financial
benefits ..., the defendants repeatedly and affirmatively
represented to [Moore] that there was no commercial
or financial value to his Blood and Bodily Substances ...
and in fact actively discouraged such inquiries."
Moore admits in his complaint that defendants disclosed
they "were engaged in strictly academic and purely
scientific medical research...." However, Golde's
representation that he had no financial interest in this
research became false, based upon the allegations, at
least by May 1979, when he "began to investigate and
initiate the procedures ... for [obtaining] a patent" on
the cell line developed from Moore's cells.
In these allegations, Moore plainly asserts that Golde
concealed an economic interest in the postoperative
procedures. Therefore, applying the 
[51 Cal.3d 133]
principles already discussed, the allegations state a cause
of action for breach of fiduciary duty or lack of informed
consent.
We thus disagree with the superior court's ruling that
Moore had not stated a cause of action because essential
allegations were lacking. We discuss each such
allegation. First, in the superior court's view, Moore
needed but failed to allege that defendants knew his cells
had potential commercial value on October 5, 1976 (the
time blood tests were first performed at UCLA Medical
Center) and had at that time already formed the intent
to exploit the cells. We agree with the superior court
that the absence of such allegations precludes Moore
from stating a cause of action based upon the procedures
undertaken on October 5, 1976. But, as already
discussed, Moore clearly alleges that Golde had
developed a research interest in his cells by October 20,
1976, when the splenectomy was performed. Thus,
Moore can state a cause of action based upon Golde's
alleged failure to disclose that interest before the
splenectomy.
The superior court also held that the lack of essential
allegations prevented Moore from stating a cause of
action based on the splenectomy. According to the
superior court, Moore failed to allege that the operation
lacked a therapeutic purpose or that the procedure was
totally unrelated to therapeutic purposes. In our view,
however, neither allegation is essential. Even if the
splenectomy had a therapeutic purpose,
11 
 it does not
follow that Golde had no duty to disclose his additional
research and economic interests. As we have already
discussed, the existence of a motivation for a medical
procedure unrelated to the patient's health is a potential
conflict of interest and a fact material to the patient's
decision.
2. The Remaining Defendants
The Regents, Quan, Genetics Institute, and Sandoz are
not physicians. In contrast to Golde, none of these
defendants stood in a fiduciary relationship with Moore
or had the duty to obtain Moore's informed consent to
medical procedures. If any of these defendants is to be
liable for breach of fiduciary duty or performing medical
procedures without informed consent, it can only be on
account of Golde's acts and on the basis of a recognized
theory of secondary liability, such as respondeat
superior. The procedural posture of this case, however,
makes it unnecessary for us to address the sufficiency of
Moore's secondary-liability allegations.
As already mentioned, the superior court addressed only
the purported cause of action for conversion. Because
the superior court found that Moore 
[51 Cal.3d 134]
 had
not stated such a cause of action, it had no occasion to
address the sufficiency of Moore's allegation that the
Regents and Quan were acting as Golde's "agent[s]" and
"joint venturer[s]."
12 
 In a later proceeding, however, the
superior court did find that the same allegations were
too conclusory to state a cause of action against Genetics
Institute and Sandoz.
The Court of Appeal did not hold, explicitly or
implicitly, that Moore's secondary-liability allegations
were sufficient as against any defendant. The court did
hold that Moore had stated a cause of action against the
Regents and Quan. However, the court did not reach
that conclusion on the basis of secondary liability.
Instead, drawing no distinctions between the
defendants, the court held simply that each defendant
was primarily liable for conversion.
13 
 Because no court
has yet addressed the Regents' and Quan's secondary
liability and because the superior court will need to
consider other issues on remand, there is no need to
address these issues at this time.
14
With respect to Genetics Institute and Sandoz, the
situation is slightly different. The Court of Appeal
mentioned Moore's secondary-liability allegations
against these defendants but expressed no opinion as to
their sufficiency. Instead, as to these defendants the
court merely reversed the superior court's order "for
failure to grant leave to amend." Our affirmance of this
part of the Court of Appeal's decision will leave Moore
free to attempt, once again, to allege that Genetics
Institute and Sandoz are secondarily liable for Golde's
torts.
B. Conversion
(4a) Moore also attempts to characterize the invasion of
his rights as a conversion — a tort that protects against
interference with possessory and ownership interests in
personal property. He theorizes that he continued to
own his cells following their removal from his body, at
least for the purpose of directing their use, and that he
never consented to their use in potentially 
[51 Cal.3d
135]
 lucrative medical research. Thus, to complete
Moore's argument, defendants' unauthorized use of his
cells constitutes a conversion. As a result of the alleged
conversion, Moore claims a proprietary interest in each
of the products that any of the defendants might ever
create from his cells or the patented cell line.
No court, however, has ever in a reported decision
imposed conversion liability for the use of human cells
in medical research.
15 
 While that fact does not end our
inquiry, it raises a flag of caution. (5) (See fn. 16.) In
effect, what Moore is asking us to do is to impose a tort
duty on scientists to investigate the consensual pedigree
of each human cell sample used in research.
16 
 To impose
such a duty, which would affect medical research of
importance to all of society, implicates policy concerns
far removed from the traditional, two-party ownership
disputes in which the law of conversion arose.
17
Invoking a tort theory originally used to determine
whether the loser or the finder of a horse had the better
title, Moore claims ownership of the results of socially
important medical research, including the genetic code
for chemicals that regulate the functions of every human
being's immune system.
18
(6) We have recognized that, when the proposed
application of a very general theory of liability in a new
context raises important policy concerns, it is especially
important to face those concerns and address them
openly. (Cf. Nally v. Grace Community Church, supra,
47 Cal.3d 278, 291-300 [declining to expand negligence
law to encompass theory of "clergyman malpractice"];
Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654,
694-700 [254 Cal.Rptr. 211, 765 P.2d 373]
[51 Cal.3d
136]
  [declining to apply tort remedies for breach of the
covenant of good faith in the employment context];
Brown v. Superior Court (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1049, 1061-
1066 [245 Cal.Rptr. 412, 751 P.2d 470] [declining to
apply strict products liability to pharmaceutical
manufacturers].) Moreover, we should be hesitant to
"impose [new tort duties] when to do so would involve
complex policy decisions" (Nally v. Grace Community
Church, supra, 47 Cal.3d at p. 299), especially when such
decisions are more appropriately the subject of
legislative deliberation and resolution. (See Foley v.
Interactive Data Corp., supra, 47 Cal.3d at p. 694 & fn.
31.) This certainly is not to say that the applicability of
common law torts is limited to the historical or factual
contexts of existing cases. But on occasions when we
have opened or sanctioned new areas of tort liability, we
"have noted that the `wrongs and injuries involved were
both comprehensible and assessable within the existing
judicial framework.'" (Nally v. Grace Community
Church, supra, 47 Cal.3d at p. 298, quoting Peter W. v.
San Francisco Unified Sch. Dist. (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d
814, 824 [131 Cal.Rptr. 854].)
(4b) Accordingly, we first consider whether the tort of
conversion clearly gives Moore a cause of action under
existing law. We do not believe it does. Because of the
novelty of Moore's claim to own the biological materials
at issue, to apply the theory of conversion in this context
would frankly have to be recognized as an extension of
the theory. Therefore, we consider next whether it is
advisable to extend the tort to this context.
1. Moore's Claim Under Existing Law
(7) "To establish a conversion, plaintiff must establish an
actual interference with his ownership or right of
possession. ... Where plaintiff neither has title to the
property alleged to have been converted, nor possession
thereof, he cannot maintain an action for conversion."
19
(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 593, 610-611 [176 Cal.Rptr. 824], italics
added. See also General Motors A. Corp. v. Dallas
(1926) 198 Cal. 365, 370 [245 P. 184].)
(4c) Since Moore clearly did not expect to retain
possession of his cells following their removal,
20 
 to sue
for their conversion he must have retained 
[51 Cal.3d
137]
 an ownership interest in them. But there are several
reasons to doubt that he did retain any such interest.
First, no reported judicial decision supports Moore's
claim, either directly or by close analogy. Second,
California statutory law drastically limits any continuing
interest of a patient in excised cells. Third, the subject
matters of the Regents' patent — the patented cell line
and the products derived from it — cannot be Moore's
property.
Neither the Court of Appeal's opinion, the parties'
briefs, nor our research discloses a case holding that a
person retains a sufficient interest in excised cells to
support a cause of action for conversion. We do not find
this surprising, since the laws governing such things as
human tissues,
21 
 transplantable organs,
22 
 blood,
23
fetuses,
24 
 pituitary glands,
25 
 corneal tissue,
26 
 and dead
bodies
27 
 deal with human biological materials as objects
sui generis, regulating their disposition to achieve policy
goals rather than abandoning them to the general law of
personal property. It is these specialized statutes, not the
law of conversion, to which courts ordinarily should
and do look for guidance on the disposition of human
biological materials.
Lacking direct authority for importing the law of
conversion into this context, Moore relies, as did the
Court of Appeal, primarily on decisions 
[51 Cal.3d 138]
addressing privacy rights.
28 
 One line of cases involves
unwanted publicity. (Lugosi v. Universal Pictures (1979)
25 Cal.3d 813 [160 Cal.Rptr. 323, 603 P.2d 425, 10
A.L.R.4th 1150]; Motschenbacher v. R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company (9th Cir.1974) 498 F.2d 821
[interpreting Cal. law].) These opinions hold that every
person has a proprietary interest in his own likeness and
that unauthorized, business use of a likeness is
redressible as a tort. But in neither opinion did the
authoring court expressly base its holding on property
law. (Lugosi v. Universal Pictures, supra, 25 Cal.3d at
pp. 819, 823-826; Motschenbacher v. R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company, supra, 498 F.2d at pp. 825-826.)
Each court stated, following Prosser, that it was
"pointless" to debate the proper characterization of the
proprietary interest in a likeness. (Motschenbacher v.
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, supra, 498 F.2d at p.
825, quoting Prosser, Law of Torts (4th ed. 1971) at p.
807; Lugosi v. Universal Pictures, supra, 25 Cal.3d at pp.
819, 824.) For purposes of determining whether the tort
of conversion lies, however, the characterization of the
right in question is far from pointless. Only property can
be converted.
Not only are the wrongful-publicity cases irrelevant to
the issue of conversion, but the analogy to them
seriously misconceives the nature of the genetic
materials and research involved in this case. Moore,
adopting the analogy originally advanced by the Court
of Appeal, argues that "[i]f the courts have found a
sufficient proprietary interest in one's persona, how
could one not have a right in one's own genetic material,
something far more profoundly the essence of one's
human uniqueness than a name or a face?" However, as
the defendants' patent makes clear — and the complaint,
too, if read with an understanding of the scientific terms
which it has borrowed from the patent — the goal and
result of defendants' efforts has been to manufacture
lymphokines.
29 
 Lymphokines, unlike a name or a face,
[51 Cal.3d 139]
 have the same molecular structure in
every human being and the same, important functions
in every human being's immune system. Moreover, the
particular genetic material which is responsible for the
natural production of lymphokines, and which
defendants use to manufacture lymphokines in the
laboratory, is also the same in every person; it is no
more unique to Moore than the number of vertebrae in
the spine or the chemical formula of hemoglobin.
30
Another privacy case offered by analogy to support
Moore's claim establishes only that patients have a right
to refuse medical treatment. (Bouvia v. Superior Court
(1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 1127 [225 Cal.Rptr. 297].) In this
context the court in Bouvia wrote that "`[e]very human
being of adult years and sound mind has a right to
determine what shall be done with his own body....'"
(Id., at p. 1139, quoting from Schloendorff v. New York
Hospital, supra, 211 N.Y. 125 [105 N.E. 92, 93].)
31
Relying on this language to support the proposition that
a patient has a continuing right to control the use of
excised cells, the Court of Appeal in this case concluded
that "[a] patient must have the ultimate power to
control what becomes of his or her 
[51 Cal.3d 140]
tissues. To hold otherwise would open the door to a
massive invasion of human privacy and dignity in the
name of medical progress." Yet one may earnestly wish
to protect privacy and dignity without accepting the
extremely problematic conclusion that interference with
those interests amounts to a conversion of personal
property. Nor is it necessary to force the round pegs of
"privacy" and "dignity" into the square hole of
"property" in order to protect the patient, since the
fiduciary-duty and informed-consent theories protect
these interests directly by requiring full disclosure.
The next consideration that makes Moore's claim of
ownership problematic is California statutory law,
which drastically limits a patient's control over excised
cells. Pursuant to Health and Safety Code section 7054.4,
"[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law,
recognizable anatomical parts, human tissues,
anatomical human remains, or infectious waste
following conclusion of scientific use shall be disposed
of by interment, incineration, or any other method
determined by the state department [of health services]
to protect the public health and safety."
32 
 Clearly the
Legislature did not specifically intend this statute to
resolve the question of whether a patient is entitled to
compensation for the nonconsensual use of excised cells.
A primary object of the statute is to ensure the safe
handling of potentially hazardous biological waste
materials.
33 
 Yet one cannot escape the conclusion that
the statute's practical effect is to limit, drastically, a
who have no reason to believe that their use of a
particular cell sample is, or may be, against a donor's
wishes.
To reach an appropriate balance of these policy
considerations is extremely important. In its report to
Congress (see fn. 2, ante), the Office of Technology
Assessment emphasized that "[u]ncertainty about how
courts will resolve disputes between specimen sources
and specimen users could be detrimental to both
academic researchers and the infant biotechnology
industry, particularly when the rights are asserted long
after the specimen was obtained. The assertion of rights
by sources would affect not only the researcher who
obtained the original specimen, but perhaps other
researchers as well.
"Biological materials are routinely distributed to other
researchers for experimental purposes, and scientists
who obtain cell lines or other specimen-derived
products, such as gene clones, from the original
researcher could also be sued under certain legal theories
[such as conversion]. Furthermore, the uncertainty
could affect product developments as well as research.
Since inventions containing human tissues and cells may
be patented and licensed for commercial use, companies
are unlikely to invest heavily in developing,
manufacturing, or marketing a product when
uncertainty about clear title exists." (OTA Rep., supra, at
p. 27.)
Indeed, so significant is the potential obstacle to
research stemming from uncertainty about legal title to
biological materials that the Office of Technology
Assessment reached this striking conclusion:
"[R]egardless of the merit of claims by the different
interested parties, resolving the current uncertainty may
be more important to the future of biotechnology than
resolving it in any particular way." (OTA Rep., supra, at
p. 27.)
We need not, however, make an arbitrary choice
between liability and nonliability. Instead, an
examination of the relevant policy considerations 
[51
Cal.3d 144]
 suggests an appropriate balance: Liability
based upon existing disclosure obligations, rather than
an unprecedented extension of the conversion theory,
protects patients' rights of privacy and autonomy
without unnecessarily hindering research.
To be sure, the threat of liability for conversion might
help to enforce patients' rights indirectly. This is because
physicians might be able to avoid liability by obtaining
patients' consent, in the broadest possible terms, to any
conceivable subsequent research use of excised cells.
Unfortunately, to extend the conversion theory would
utterly sacrifice the other goal of protecting innocent
parties. (8) (See fn. 38.), (4d) Since conversion is a strict
liability tort,
38 
 it would impose liability on all those into
whose hands the cells come, whether or not the
particular defendant participated in, or knew of, the
inadequate disclosures that violated the patient's right to
make an informed decision. In contrast to the
conversion theory, the fiduciary-duty and informed-
consent theories protect the patient directly, without
punishing innocent parties or creating disincentives to
the conduct of socially beneficial research.
Research on human cells plays a critical role in medical
research. This is so because researchers are increasingly
able to isolate naturally occurring, medically useful
biological substances and to produce useful quantities of
such substances through genetic engineering. These
efforts are beginning to bear fruit. Products developed
through biotechnology that have already been approved
for marketing in this country include treatments and
tests for leukemia, cancer, diabetes, dwarfism, hepatitis-
B, kidney transplant rejection, emphysema,
osteoporosis, ulcers, anemia, infertility, and
gynecological tumors, to name but a few. (Note, Source
Compensation for Tissues and Cells Used in
Biotechnical Research: Why a Source Shouldn't Share in
the Profits (1989) 64 Notre Dame L. Rev. 628 & fn. 1
(hereafter Note, Source Compensation); see also OTA
Rep., supra, at pp. 58-59.)
The extension of conversion law into this area will
hinder research by restricting access to the necessary
raw materials. Thousands of human cell lines already
exist in tissue repositories, such as the American Type
Culture Collection and those operated by the National
Institutes of Health and the American Cancer Society.
These repositories respond to tens of thousands 
[51
Cal.3d 145]
 of requests for samples annually. Since the
patent office requires the holders of patents on cell lines
to make samples available to anyone, many patent
holders place their cell lines in repositories to avoid the
administrative burden of responding to requests. (OTA
Rep., supra, at p. 53.) At present, human cell lines are
routinely copied and distributed to other researchers for
experimental purposes, usually free of charge.
39 
 This
exchange of scientific materials, which still is relatively
free and efficient, will surely be compromised if each cell
sample becomes the potential subject matter of a
lawsuit. (OTA Rep., supra, at p. 52.)
40
To expand liability by extending conversion law into
this area would have a broad impact. The House
Committee on Science and Technology of the United
States Congress found that "49 percent of the
researchers at medical institutions surveyed used human
tissues or cells in their research." Many receive grants
from the National Institute of Health for this work.
(OTA Rep., supra, at p. 52.) In addition, "there are
nearly 350 commercial biotechnology firms in the
United States actively engaged in biotechnology
research and commercial product development and
approximately 25 to 30 percent appear to be engaged in
research to develop a human therapeutic or diagnostic
reagent.... Most, but not all, of the human therapeutic
products are derived from human tissues and cells, or
human cell lines or cloned genes." (Id., at p. 56.)
In deciding whether to create new tort duties we have in
the past considered the impact that expanded liability
would have on activities that are important to society,
such as research. For example, in Brown v. Superior
Court, supra, 44 Cal.3d 1049, the fear that strict product
liability would frustrate pharmaceutical research led us
to hold that a drug manufacturer's liability should not be
measured by those standards. We wrote that, "[i]f drug
manufacturers were subject to strict liability, they might
be reluctant to undertake research programs to develop
some pharmaceuticals that would prove beneficial or to
distribute others that are available to be marketed,
because of the fear of large adverse monetary
judgments." (Id., at p. 1063.)
As in Brown, the theory of liability that Moore urges us
to endorse threatens to destroy the economic incentive
to conduct important medical research. If the use of cells
in research is a conversion, then with every cell sample a
researcher purchases a ticket in a litigation lottery.
Because liability for conversion is predicated on a
continuing ownership interest, "companies are unlikely
to invest heavily in developing, manufacturing, or
marketing a product when uncertainty about clear title
exists." (OTA Rep., supra, at p. 27.)
41 
 In our view,
borrowing again from Brown, "[i]t is not unreasonable
to conclude in these circumstances that the imposition
of a harsher test for liability would not further the public
interest in the development and availability of these
important products." (Brown v. Superior Court, supra,
44 Cal.3d at p. 1065.)
42
[51 Cal.3d 147]
 Indeed, this is a far more compelling case
for limiting the expansion of tort liability than Brown.
In Brown, eliminating strict liability made it more
difficult for plaintiffs to recover actual damages for
serious physical injuries resulting from their mothers'
prenatal use of the drug diethylstilbestrol (DES). (Brown
v. Superior Court, supra, 44 Cal.3d at pp. 1054-1055.) In
this case, by comparison, limiting the expansion of
liability under a conversion theory will only make it
more difficult for Moore to recover a highly theoretical
windfall. Any injury to his right to make an informed
decision remains actionable through the fiduciary-duty
and informed-consent theories.
If the scientific users of human cells are to be held liable
for failing to investigate the consensual pedigree of their
raw materials, we believe the Legislature should make
that decision. Complex policy choices affecting all
society are involved, and "[l]egislatures, in making such
policy decisions, have the ability to gather empirical
evidence, solicit the advice of experts, and hold hearings
at which all interested parties present evidence and
express their views...." (Foley v. Interactive Data Corp.,
supra, 47 Cal.3d at p. 694, fn. 31.) Legislative
competence to act in this area is demonstrated by the
existing statutes governing the use and disposition of
human biological materials.
43 
 Legislative interest is
demonstrated by the extensive study recently
commissioned by the United States Congress. (OTA
Rep., supra.) Commentators are also recommending
legislative solutions. (See Danforth, Cells, Sales, and
Royalties: The Patient's Right to a Portion of the Profits
(1988) 6 Yale L. & Pol'y Rev. 179, 198-201; Note, Source
Compensation, supra, 64 Notre Dame L. Rev. at pp.
643-645.)
Finally, there is no pressing need to impose a judicially
created rule of strict liability, since enforcement of
physicians' disclosure obligations will protect patients
against the very type of harm with which Moore was
threatened. So long as a physician discloses research and
economic interests that may affect his judgment, the
patient is protected from conflicts of interest. Aware of
any conflicts, the patient can make an informed decision
to consent to treatment, or to withhold consent and
look elsewhere for medical assistance. As already
discussed, enforcement of physicians' disclosure
obligations protects patients directly, without hindering
the socially useful activities of innocent researchers.
For these reasons, we hold that the allegations of
Moore's third amended complaint state a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty or lack of informed consent,
but not conversion.
44
[51 Cal.3d 148]
 IV. DISPOSITION
The decision of the Court of Appeal is affirmed in part
and reversed in part. The case is remanded to the Court
of Appeal, which shall direct the superior court to: (1)
overrule Golde's demurrers to the causes of action for
breach of fiduciary duty and lack of informed consent;
(2) sustain, with leave to amend, the demurrers of the
Regents, Quan, Sandoz, and Genetics Institute to the
purported causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty
and lack of informed consent; (3) sustain, without leave
to amend, all defendants' demurrers to the purported
cause of action for conversion; and (4) hear and
determine all defendants' remaining demurrers.