Given the novel scientific setting in which this case
arises and the considerable interest this litigation has
engendered within the medical research community and
the public generally, it is easy to lose sight of the fact
that the specific allegations on which the complaint in
this case rests are quite unusual, setting this matter apart
from the great majority of instances in which donated
organs or cells provide the raw materials for the
advancement of medical science and the development of
new and beneficial medical products. Ordinarily, when a
patient consents to the use of a body part for scientific
purposes, the potential value of the excised organ or cell
is discovered only through subsequent experimentation
or research, often months or years after the removal of
the organ. In this case, however, the complaint alleges
that plaintiff's doctor recognized the peculiar research
and commercial value of plaintiff's cells before their
removal from plaintiff's body. Despite this knowledge,
the doctor allegedly failed to disclose these facts or his
interest in the cells to plaintiff, either before plaintiff's
initial surgery or throughout the ensuing seven-year
period during which the doctor continued to obtain
additional cells from plaintiff's body in the course of
periodic medical examinations.
The majority opinion, of course, is not oblivious to the
significance of these unusual allegations. It relies on
those allegations in concluding that the complaint states
a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty. I concur
fully in that holding.
[51 Cal.3d 151]
 When it turns to the conversion cause of
action, however, the majority opinion fails to maintain
its focus on the specific allegations before us. Concerned
that the imposition of liability for conversion will
impede medical research by innocent scientists who use
the resources of existing cell repositories — a factual
setting not presented here — the majority opinion rests
its holding, that a conversion action cannot be
maintained, largely on the proposition that a patient
generally possesses no right in a body part that has
already been removed from his body. Here, however,
plaintiff has alleged that defendants interfered with his
legal rights before his body part was removed. Although
a patient may not retain any legal interest in a body part
after its removal when he has properly consented to its
removal and use for scientific purposes, it is clear under
California law that before a body part is removed it is
the patient, rather than his doctor or hospital, who
possesses the right to determine the use to which the
body part will be put after removal. If, as alleged in this
case, plaintiff's doctor improperly interfered with
plaintiff's right to control the use of a body part by
wrongfully withholding material information from him
before its removal, under traditional common law
principles plaintiff may maintain a conversion action to
recover the economic value of the right to control the
use of his body part. Accordingly, I dissent from the
majority opinion insofar as it rejects plaintiff's
conversion cause of action.
I
To begin with, I concur fully in the majority's
conclusion that the facts alleged in the complaint state a
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty against Dr.
Golde. As the majority persuasively explains, because a
physician's research activities and related commercial
ventures may potentially affect his or her professional
judgment, a physician has an obligation to disclose such
personal interests to his patient. In this case, the
complaint clearly alleges that Dr. Golde failed to fulfill
this duty.
With respect to the additional defendants — the Regents
of the University of California (hereafter Regents),
Shirley G. Quan, Genetics Institute, Inc. (hereafter
Genetics Institute), and Sandoz Pharmaceuticals
Corporation (hereafter Sandoz) — I cannot fully join in
the majority's conclusion. Although I agree that the trial
court erred in sustaining these defendants' demurrers to
the breach of fiduciary duty cause of action without
leave to amend, in my view the majority's ruling with
respect to these defendants is more equivocal than is
warranted. (See maj. opn., ante, pp. 133-134.) As the
majority recognizes, the breach of fiduciary duty alleged
in the complaint encompasses postoperative conduct —
for example, the periodic withdrawal of blood, blood
serum, bone marrow aspirate and sperm samples from
plaintiff, requiring plaintiff to travel from Seattle to the
Medical Center of 
[51 Cal.3d 152]
 the University of
California at Los Angeles (hereafter UCLA Medical
Center) — which continued until September 1983. By
that date, according to the complaint, all of the
defendants, including Genetics Institute and Sandoz,
were already involved in the commercial venture.
Despite the "boilerplate" nature of some of the agency
allegations in the complaint (see maj. opn., ante, p. 134,
fn. 12), the complaint's allegations, viewed in their
entirety,
1 
 charge sufficient complicity on the part of all
defendants in the allegedly improper postoperative
conduct to survive a demurrer. If, after discovery, it
becomes clear that the additional defendants bear no
responsibility for either the original or continuing
breach of fiduciary duty, those defendants can, of course,
move for summary judgment on this count. At the
present pleading stage, however, it is premature to
absolve any of the defendants of liability for breach of
fiduciary duty.
I disagree, however, with the suggestion in the
dissenting opinion that defendants will be able to avoid
all liability under the breach-of-fiduciary-duty theory
simply by showing that plaintiff would have proceeded
with the surgical removal of his diseased spleen even if
defendants had disclosed their research and commercial
interest in his cells. (See dis. opn., post, pp. 179-180.) In
the first place, because the alleged breach of fiduciary
duty encompasses the postoperative conduct of
defendants as well as the presurgical failure to disclose,
plaintiff will clearly be entitled to recover under a
breach-of-fiduciary-duty theory by establishing that he
would not have consented to some or all of the
extensive postoperative medical procedures if he had
been fully aware of defendants' research and economic
interests and motivations. Second, and more generally,
in this context — unlike in the traditional "informed
consent" context of Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229
[104 Cal.Rptr. 505, 502 P.2d 1] — a plaintiff should not
be required to establish that he would not have
proceeded with the medical treatment in question if his
physician had made full disclosure, but only that the
doctor's wrongful failure to disclose information
proximately caused the plaintiff some type of
compensable damage. The majority does not attempt to
identify in advance of trial the various kinds of damage
or injury for which 
[51 Cal.3d 153]
 plaintiff may properly
recover in his breach-of-fiduciary-duty action, and that
may be understandable. Nonetheless, it is worth noting
that, in appropriate circumstances, punitive as well as
compensatory damages would clearly be recoverable in
such an action. Accordingly, the dissent underestimates
the potential efficacy of the breach-of-fiduciary-duty
cause of action in dismissing the action as a "paper
tiger." (Dis. opn., post, p. 180.)
II
With respect to the conversion cause of action, I dissent
from the majority's conclusion that the facts alleged in
this case do not state a cause of action for conversion.
If this were a typical case in which a patient consented to
the use of his removed organ for general research
purposes and the patient's doctor had no prior
knowledge of the scientific or commercial value of the
patient's organ or cells, I would agree that the patient
could not maintain a conversion action. In that common
scenario, the patient has abandoned any interest in the
removed organ and is not entitled to demand
compensation if it should later be discovered that the
organ or cells have some unanticipated value. I cannot
agree, however, with the majority that a patient may
never maintain a conversion action for the unauthorized
use of his excised organ or cells, even against a party
who knew of the value of the organ or cells before they
were removed and breached a duty to disclose that value
to the patient. Because plaintiff alleges that defendants
wrongfully interfered with his right to determine, prior
to the removal of his body parts, how those parts would
be used after removal, I conclude that the complaint
states a cause of action under traditional, common law
conversion principles.
In analyzing the conversion issue, the majority properly
begins with the established requirements of a common
law conversion action, explaining that a plaintiff is
required to demonstrate an actual interference with his
"ownership or right of possession" in the property in
question. (Maj. opn., ante, p. 136.) Although the
majority opinion, at several points, appears to suggest
that a removed body part, by its nature, may never
constitute "property" for purposes of a conversion
action (see maj. opn., ante, pp. 138, 140), there is no
reason to think that the majority opinion actually
intends to embrace such a broad or dubious proposition.
If, for example, another medical center or drug company
had stolen all of the cells in question from the UCLA
Medical Center laboratory and had used them for its
own benefit, there would be no question but that a cause
of action for conversion would properly lie against the
thief, and the majority opinion does not suggest
otherwise. Thus, the majority's analysis cannot rest on
the broad proposition that a removed body part is not
property, but rather rests on the 
[51 Cal.3d 154]
proposition that a patient retains no ownership interest
in a body part once the body part has been removed
from his or her body.
The majority opinion fails to recognize, however, that,
in light of the allegations of the present complaint, the
pertinent inquiry is not whether a patient generally
retains an ownership interest in a body part after its
removal from his body, but rather whether a patient has
a right to determine, before a body part is removed, the
use to which the part will be put after removal.
Although the majority opinion suggests that there are
"reasons to doubt" that a patient retains "any" ownership
interest in his organs or cells after removal (maj. opn.,
ante, p. 137), the opinion fails to identify any statutory
provision or common law authority that indicates that a
patient does not generally have the right, before a body
part is removed, to choose among the permissible uses
to which the part may be put after removal. On the
contrary, the most closely related statutory scheme —
the Uniform Anatomical Gift Act (Health & Saf. Code, 
§
7150 et seq.)
2 
 — makes it quite clear that a patient does
have this right.
The Uniform Anatomical Gift Act is a comprehensive
statutory scheme that was initially adopted in California
in 1970 and most recently revised in 1988. Although
that legislation, by its terms, applies only to a donation
of all or part of a human body which is "to take effect
upon or after [the] death [of the donor]" (
§
 7150.1,
subd. (a)) — and thus is not directly applicable to the
present case which involves a living donor — the act is
nonetheless instructive with regard to this state's
general policy concerning an individual's authority to
control the use of a donated body part. The act, which
authorizes an anatomical gift to be made, inter alia, to
"[a] hospital [or a] physician[,] ... for transplantation,
therapy, medical or dental education, research or
advancement of medical or dental science" (
§
 7153,
subd. (a)(1)), expressly provides that such a gift "may be
made to a designated donee or without designating a
donee" (
§
 7153, subd. (b)) and also that the donor may
make such a gift "for any of the purposes [specified in
the statute or may] limit an anatomical gift to one or
more of those purposes...." (
§
 7150.5, subd. (a).) Thus,
the act clearly recognizes that it is the donor of the body
part, rather than the hospital or physician who receives
the part, who has the authority to designate, within the
parameters of the statutorily authorized uses, the
particular use to which the part may be put.
Although, as noted, the Uniform Anatomical Gift Act
applies only to anatomical gifts that take effect on or
after the death of the donor, the general principle of
"donor control" which the act embodies is clearly not
limited to that setting. In the transplantation context,
for example, it is 
[51 Cal.3d 155]
 common for a living
donor to designate the specific donee — often a relative
— who is to receive a donated organ. If a hospital, after
removing an organ from such a donor, decided on its
own to give the organ to a different donee, no one
would deny that the hospital had violated the legal right
of the donor by its unauthorized use of the donated
organ. Accordingly, it is clear under California law that
a patient has the right, prior to the removal of an organ,
to control the use to which the organ will be put after
removal.
It is also clear, under traditional common law principles,
that this right of a patient to control the future use of his
organ is protected by the law of conversion. As a general
matter, the tort of conversion protects an individual not
only against improper interference with the right of
possession of his property but also against unauthorized
use of his property or improper interference with his
right to control the use of his property. Sections 227 and
228 of the Restatement Second of Torts specifically
provide in this regard that "[o]ne who uses a chattel in a
manner which is a serious violation of the right of
another to control its use is subject to liability to the
other for conversion" and that "[o]ne who is authorized
to make a particular use of a chattel, and uses it in a
manner exceeding the authorization, is subject to
liability for conversion to another whose right to
control the use of the chattel is thereby seriously
violated." California cases have also long recognized that
"unauthorized use" of property can give rise to a
conversion action. (See Hollywood M.P. Equipment Co.
v. Furer (1940) 16 Cal.2d 184, 189 [105 P.2d 299]. See
generally 5 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (9th ed. 1988)
Torts, 
§
 622, p. 716.)
The application of these principles to the present case is
evident. If defendants had informed plaintiff, prior to
removal, of the possible uses to which his body part
could be put and plaintiff had authorized one particular
use, it is clear under the foregoing authorities that
defendants would be liable for conversion if they
disregarded plaintiff's decision and used the body part in
an unauthorized manner for their own economic
benefit. Although in this case defendants did not
disregard a specific directive from plaintiff with regard
to the future use of his body part, the complaint alleges
that, before the body part was removed, defendants
intentionally withheld material information that they
were under an obligation to disclose to plaintiff and that
was necessary for his exercise of control over the body
part; the complaint also alleges that defendants withheld
such information in order to appropriate the control
over the future use of such body part for their own
economic benefit. If these allegations are true,
defendants clearly improperly interfered with plaintiff's
right in his body part at a time when he had the
authority to determine the future use of such part,
thereby misappropriating plaintiff's right of control for
their own advantage. Under 
[51 Cal.3d 156]
 these
circumstances, the complaint fully satisfies the
established requirements of a conversion cause of
action.
As already noted, the majority maintains that there are a
number of "reasons to doubt" that a patient retains any
legally protectible interest in his organs after removal
(maj. opn., ante, p. 137), but none of these reasons
withstands scrutiny. The majority first relies on the fact
that "no reported judicial decision supports Moore's
claim, either directly or by close analogy." (Maj. opn.,
ante, p. 137.) By the same token, however, there is no
reported judicial decision that rejects such a claim. This
is simply a case of first impression. And while the
majority goes on to emphasize that it is the "specialized
statutes" dealing with human biological materials to
which the court should look for guidance in
determining whether a patient has any legal rights with
respect to an organ after removal (maj. opn., ante, p.
137), the majority fails to recognize that the Uniform
Anatomical Gift Act, as we have seen, expressly
confirms a patient's right to designate, prior to removal,
the use to which a body part will be put. (See ante, pp.
154-155.)
The majority next relies on the provisions of section
7054.4,
3 
 a statute that addresses the potential health
hazards posed by the improper disposal of human body
parts, reasoning that this statute "drastically limits a
patient's control over excised cells." (Maj. opn., ante, p.
140.) While I agree with the majority that section
7054.4 should reasonably be interpreted to apply to body
parts removed from a living patient as well as from dead
bodies, the statute nonetheless provides absolutely no
support for the majority's conclusion. Although section
7054.4 limits a patient's control over an excised body
part in the sense that it prohibits him from taking the
removed part to his home and keeping it on his mantel,
the statute certainly does not suggest that a patient does
not have the right to choose among the legally
permissible uses of his organ. Similarly, there is nothing
in section 7054.4 which indicates that a doctor or
the cells after removal and used them in an
unauthorized manner for its own economic gain, no
breach-of-fiduciary-duty cause of action would be
available and a conversion action would be necessary to
vindicate the patient's rights. Under the majority's
holding, however, the patient would have no right to
bring a conversion action, even against such a thief. As
this hypothetical illustrates, even if there were
compelling policy reasons to limit the potential liability
of innocent researchers who use cells obtained from an
existing cell bank, those policy considerations would not
justify the majority's broad abrogation of all conversion
liability for the unauthorized use of body parts.
Second, even with respect to those persons who are not
involved in the initial conversion, the majority's policy
arguments are less than compelling. To begin with, the
majority's fear that the availability of a conversion
remedy will restrict access to existing cell lines is
unrealistic. In the vast majority of instances the tissues
and cells in existing repositories will not represent a
potential source of liability because they will have come
from patients who consented to their organ's use for
scientific purposes under circumstances in which such
consent was not tainted by a failure to disclose the
known valuable nature of the cells. Because potential
liability under a conversion theory will exist in only the
exceedingly rare instance in which a doctor knowingly
concealed from the patient the value of his body part or
[51 Cal.3d 159]
 the patient's specific directive with
regard to the use of the body part was disregarded, there
is no reason to think that application of settled
conversion law will have any negative effect on the
primary conduct of medical researchers who use tissue
and cell banks.
Furthermore, even in the rare instance — like the
present case — in which a conversion action might be
successfully pursued, the potential liability is not likely
"to destroy the economic incentive to conduct
important medical research," as the majority asserts.
(Maj. opn., ante, p. 146.) If, as the majority suggests, the
great bulk of the value of a cell line patent and derivative
products is attributable to the efforts of medical
researchers and drug companies, rather than to the "raw
materials" taken from a patient (maj. opn., ante, pp. 141-
142), the patient's damages will be correspondingly
limited, and innocent medical researchers and drug
manufacturers will retain the considerable economic
benefits resulting from their own work. Under
established conversion law, a "subsequent innocent
converter" does not forfeit the proceeds of his own
creative efforts, but rather "is entitled to the benefit of
any work or labor that he has expended on the
[property]...." (1 Harper et al., The Law of Torts (2d ed.
1986) 
§
 2.34, p. 234. See generally Rest.2d Torts, 
§
 927,
coms. f, g.)
Finally, the majority's analysis of the relevant policy
considerations tellingly omits a most pertinent
consideration. In identifying the interests of the patient
that are implicated by the decision whether to recognize
a conversion cause of action, the opinion speaks only of
the "patient's right to make autonomous medical
decisions" (maj. opn., ante, p. 143) and fails even to
mention the patient's interest in obtaining the economic
value, if any, that may adhere in the subsequent use of
his own body parts. Although such economic value may
constitute a fortuitous "windfall" to the patient (maj.
opn., ante, p. 147), the fortuitous nature of the
economic value does not justify the creation of a novel
exception from conversion liability which sanctions the
intentional misappropriation of that value from the
patient.
This last point reveals perhaps the most serious flaw in
the majority's public policy analysis in this case. It is
certainly arguable that, as a matter of policy or morality,
it would be wiser to prohibit any private individual or
entity from profiting from the fortuitous value that
adheres in a part of a human body, and instead to
require all valuable excised body parts to be deposited in
a public repository which would make such materials
freely available to all scientists for the betterment of
society as a whole. The Legislature, if it wished, could
create such a system, as it has done with respect to
organs that are donated for transplantation. (See 
§
 7155,
subd. (a); Pen. Code, 
§
 367f. See also 42 U.S.C. 
§
 274e.)
To date, however, the Legislature has not adopted such
a system for organs that are to be used for 
[51 Cal.3d
160]
 research or commercial purposes,
5 
 and the majority
opinion, despite some oblique suggestions to the
contrary (see maj. opn., ante, pp. 144-145), emphatically
does not do so by its holding in this case. Justice
Arabian's concurring opinion suggests that the
majority's conclusion is informed by the precept that it
is immoral to sell human body parts for profit. (See
conc. opn., ante, p. 149.) But the majority's rejection of
plaintiff's conversion cause of action does not mean that
body parts may not be bought or sold for research or
commercial purposes or that no private individual or
entity may benefit economically from the fortuitous
value of plaintiff's diseased cells. Far from elevating
these biological materials above the marketplace, the
majority's holding simply bars plaintiff, the source of the
cells, from obtaining the benefit of the cells' value, but
permits defendants, who allegedly obtained the cells
from plaintiff by improper means, to retain and exploit
the full economic value of their ill-gotten gains free of
their ordinary common law liability for conversion.
Because I conclude that plaintiff's complaint states a
cause of action for conversion under traditional
common law principles, I dissent from the majority
opinion insofar as it rejects such a claim.