PER CURIAM.

In these separate interlocutory appeals, which we now consolidate for disposition of the issues raised, we examine the propriety of orders which dealt with the right of Stephen M. Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack LLP to continue to represent Davis Communities, Inc. and others[1] in these two matters. In the first matter — Southern Burlington County N.A.A.C.P. v. Township of Mt. Laurel (hereafter Mt. Laurel) — Chancery Judge Karen L. Suter granted plaintiffs' motion to disqualify Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack; in the second — Sullivan v. Davis Communities, Inc. (hereafter Sullivan) — a different judge denied a similar motion. We affirm the order entered in Mt. Laurel and reverse the order entered in Sullivan.

Rule of Professional Conduct 1.9(a) provides that "[a] lawyer who has represented a client in a matter shall not thereafter represent another client in the same or a substantially related matter in which that client's interests are materially adverse to the interests of the former client unless the former client gives informed consent confirmed in writing." The record on appeal demonstrates that Eisdorfer, now a member of Hill Wallack, was previously affiliated with the Office of the Public Advocate and represented the interests of the plaintiffs in that landmark case[2] at least between 1986 and 1996.[3]

In August 2013, the Sullivan plaintiffs — low income residents of Tricia Meadows, a Mt. Laurel mobile home community — filed an action seeking, among other things, a determination that the rent controls required by the Supreme Court's 1983 Mt. Laurel decision did not expire on December 31, 2013, and, for that reason, that Davis, which had successfully advocated in Mt. Laurel for the construction of Tricia Meadows, was not authorized to double the rents of the Sullivan plaintiffs effective January 1, 2014. Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack appeared in Sullivan on Davis's behalf; the Sullivan plaintiffs' motion to disqualify Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack was denied in February 2014.

In November 2014, the Mt. Laurel plaintiffs moved to enforce orders entered decades earlier in Mt. Laurel with respect to Davis's attempts to double the Sullivan plaintiffs' rents effective January 1, 2014. When Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack appeared on Davis's behalf in response to that application, the Mt. Laurel plaintiffs immediately — and successfully — moved for their disqualification.

Later, when the original judge in Sullivan disqualified herself, the Sullivan plaintiffs again moved — again unsuccessfully — for disqualification.

Although we decide the interlocutory appeals in both matters by way of this single opinion, RPC 1.9(a) does not apply in precisely the same way. That is, absent the consent of the former client — which was not forthcoming in either of these cases — RPC 1.9(a) bars an attorney from representing another client in "the same" or "a substantially related matter" in which the new client's interests are "materially adverse" to the former client. Before turning to the "materially adverse" issue, we observe that application of RPC 1.9(a) in Mt. Laurel turns on whether the current proceedings in that civil action may be viewed as "the same" matter as that in which Eisdorfer previously participated; on the other hand, the question in Sullivan, which is clearly not "the same" action, turns on whether it is a "substantially related matter."

MT. LAUREL

Mt. Laurel, in which Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack have now appeared on behalf of Davis, is without question "the same" action in which Eisdorfer appeared in his position with the Public Advocate for the Mt. Laurel plaintiffs. It probably suffices to say — in demonstrating the two events arise in "the same" matter — that the pending motion in Mt. Laurel bears the same docket as the civil action in which Eisdorfer participated decades ago. If that fact alone is not enough, we note that in Mt. Laurel, the Supreme Court expressed its affirmance of the builder's remedy sought by the intervening Davis and directed that Davis "make certain that at least 20 percent of the units built are affordable by lower income households, with at least half of these being affordable by low income households." Mt. Laurel, supra, 92 N.J. at 307-09. Judgment was entered on March 14, 1984, confirming Davis's obligation. A later consent order, entered on September 9, 1985, observed that Mt. Laurel would meet its fair share in part through "[a] total of ninety-two (92) units of [l]ow and [m]oderate [i]ncome [h]ousing... anticipated to be developed at Tricia Meadows pursuant to the Davis Enterprises Settlement," and, in that regard, affordability would be guaranteed by, among other things, "resale and re-rental controls [that] shall remain in effect for a period of at least thirty (30) years from the date of initial sale." An ordinance adopted in 1987 also imposed thirty-year deed restrictions running from the date of initial sales or rentals.

The duration of these rent controls lies at the heart of the similar dispute posed in both Mt. Laurel and Sullivan. Eisdorfer, who appeared for the Public Advocate on various applications made in Mt. Laurel regarding the 1985 consent order[4] — advocating for its enforcement — argues now in the pending proceedings, in his representation of Davis, that the consent order should be understood to mean the rent controls ended on a specific date, December 31, 2013. These circumstances demonstrate that the "materially adverse" factor contained in RPC 1.9(a) is present as well.

We view the issue as did Judge Suter. The dispute about the scope of the consent order or orders arises in the same civil action, and Davis's current interpretation of the consent order is adverse to that of the Mt. Laurel plaintiffs. Without the former clients' consent, the attorneys must be disqualified in these circumstances. We decline, as Judge Suter declined, the invitation to view the applicable RPC as more nuanced than its terms suggest. The rule is simple and clear, and a testament to the rulemaker's sensible desire that both lawyer and client immediately understand their rights and limitations; RPC 1.9 precludes uncertainties and gray areas for the obvious reason that it is contrary to public policy and common sense that a lawyer's right to later appear in the same action not be the subject of extensive litigation that might even — as it might here — exceed in duration and intensity than the resolution of the merits. The interlocutory appeal here requires application of a brightline rule that precludes a lawyer for one side from later appearing in the same matter on behalf of an adverse party. See Twenty-First Century Rail Corp. v. N.J. Transit Corp., 210 N.J. 264, 275-78 (2012) (recognizing that when the subsequent representation occurs in the same matter, questions about whether the attorney received confidential information in representing the former client and the other circumstances relevant to representation in a substantially related matter, described in City of Atlantic City v. Trupos, 201 N.J. 447, 467 (2010), are irrelevant).

We, thus, affirm the disqualification order entered in Mt. Laurel.[5] Our decision, of course, extends not only to Eisdorfer but also to Hill Wallack. In an Eisdorfer certification filed in Sullivan, he asserted that "as the Department of the Public Advocate was shutting down,[6] my final responsibility in the spring of 1994 was to find new private counsel for the remaining cases." Eisdorfer recounted how he was unable to secure new private counsel in Mt. Laurel and that, with the approval of the Acting Public Advocate, he "agreed to continue to represent the plaintiffs in the Mt. Laurel case after [his] departure from the Department of Public Advocate on a pro bono basis until they found private counsel." In short, Eisdorfer continued to represent the Mt. Laurel plaintiffs after he became affiliated with Hill Wallack and until finally advising the trial judge in October 1996 that he was no longer involved.

SULLIVAN

Because Sullivan is not "the same matter" — in the sense that it is not the same civil action — as Mt. Laurel, the question whether Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack may represent Davis in Sullivan is not quite as obvious as it is in Mt. Laurel. The question we must decide is whether Sullivan is, in the words of RPC 1.9(a), a matter "substantially related" to Mt. Laurel. This question involves consideration of the Sullivan plaintiffs' standing to complain (i.e., whether Eisdorfer and the Public Advocate previously represented the Sullivan plaintiffs) and, if so, whether the test outlined in Trupos, supra, 201 N.J. at 467, requires disqualification.

The Supreme Court described the Public Advocate's clients in Mt. Laurel in the following way:

    Plaintiffs fall into four categories: (1) present residents of the township residing in dilapidated or substandard housing; (2) former residents who were forced to move elsewhere because of the absence of suitable housing; (3) nonresidents living in central city sub-standard housing in the region who desire to secure decent housing and accompanying advantages within their means elsewhere; (4) three organizations representing the housing and other interests of racial minorities.

    [Mt. Laurel, supra, 67 N.J. at 159 n.3.]

Actual living and breathing members of these classes have undoubtedly come and gone during Mt. Laurel's life and the duration of its enforcement orders.[7] As the dispute at hand demonstrates, one or more orders entered in the 1980s, which lie at the heart of the present controversy, imposed obligations on Davis at least until December 31, 2013. Do not the individuals making up the class described by our Supreme Court in its 1975 Mt. Laurel decision include those presently impacted by a consent order that was designed to apply for at least the thirty years that followed? Of course. In their complaint, the Sullivan plaintiffs assert they are entitled to the consent order's benefits; it would be an odd and crabbed interpretation of what was accomplished in Mt. Laurel to view current beneficiaries of the orders entered in the 1980s, and later, to fall outside the class that the Public Advocate and later Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack represented years ago simply because they may not have been members when the class was created thirty years ago. We are satisfied the Sullivan plaintiffs have standing to complain about Davis's retention of Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack in this matter.

What remains, then, turns on whether the nature of the controversy in Sullivan may be said to be "substantially related" to Mt. Laurel. In Trupos, the Supreme Court declared that

    for purposes of RPC 1.9, matters are deemed to be "substantially related" if (1) the lawyer for whom disqualification is sought received confidential information from the former client that can be used against that client in the subsequent representation of parties adverse to the former client, or (2) facts relevant to the prior representation are both relevant and material to the subsequent representation. We adopt that standard because it protects otherwise privileged communications, see RPC 1.6(a) (proscribing revelation of "information relating to representation of a client"), while also requiring a fact-sensitive analysis to ensure that the congruity of facts, and not merely similar legal theories, governs whether an attorney ethically may act adverse to a former client.

    [201 N.J. at 467.]

We assume without deciding that the first ground — whether the attorney came into possession of the former client's confidential information — does not warrant disqualification but only because Eisdorfer denies possession of such information; plaintiffs have not been provided with discovery on this point. In any event, the lack of certainty on this point does not matter because the second ground identified in Trupos undoubtedly warrants disqualification.[8]

That is, we agree with the contention that, in Sullivan, "facts relevant to the prior representation are both relevant and material to the subsequent representation." Trupos, supra, 201 N.J. at 467. The dispute between the Sullivan plaintiffs and Davis is, in fact, the same as the dispute between the Mt. Laurel plaintiffs and Davis, and the resolution of that controversy will be dependent in whole or in part on matters already adjudicated in Mt. Laurel while Eisdorfer was affiliated with the Public Advocate.[9] The only apparent difference between the two matters seems to arise solely from the fact that the Sullivan plaintiffs commenced a separate action for relief.[10] The trial courts in both matters will be obliged to consider not only the content of the orders entered in Mt. Laurel but, arguably, the meaning of the orders' terms and, possibly, their intent. In resolving the controversy, it can also be expected the trial court will be presented with statements made on behalf of plaintiffs by Eisdorfer, as Assistant Deputy Public Advocate, such as a letter he wrote on May 23, 1994, advising the Mt. Laurel trial judge of the many circumstances that caused a delay in housing construction that would "all strongly militate in favor of" extending time frames contained in the 1985 judgment. No doubt, the same pleadings, correspondence, and transcripts regarding an identification of the commencement of the thirty-year term that were created during Mt. Laurel — while, on behalf of the Public Advocate, Eisdorfer represented the plaintiffs — will be introduced and will likely be relevant to the current controversy in Sullivan, in which Eisdorfer seeks to speak on behalf of Davis. Indeed, although we cannot predict, based upon the little that has been provided in the record on appeal about the merits of the dispute, it readily seems — and seems unseemly — that, but for disqualification, Davis would be required to rebut statements made by its own counsel as to the meaning and scope of the thirty-year rent controls.

In any event, if Sullivan is not "substantially related" to Mt. Laurel then we doubt whether any two separate civil actions could ever be "substantially related." And communications both during and subsequent to Eisdorfer's involvement in Mt. Laurel on behalf of the Public Advocate demonstrate — by pointing out this long, unresolved disagreement between plaintiffs and Davis about when the thirty-year term commences[11] — that the interests of the former client and the current client are "materially adverse" since it is in plaintiffs' best interests to maximize, while it is in Davis's interests to minimize, the end date of the thirty-year period. RPC 1.9(a) prohibits, without consent, an attorney from switching sides in such circumstances. We, thus, reverse the Sullivan order, which denied plaintiffs' motion to disqualify Eisdorfer and Hill Wallack.

We affirm the order under review in A-3809-14, and reverse the order under review in A-4847-14.